英

語（リーディング）

各大問の英文や図表を読み，解答番号 １ 〜 ４９ にあてはまるものとして

最も適当な選択肢を選びなさい。

第１問 （配点 １０）

Ａ You are studying in the US, and as an afternoon activity you need to choose

one of two performances to go and see. Your teacher gives you this handout.

Performances for Friday

Palace Theater

Grand Theater

Together Wherever

The Guitar Queen

A romantic play that will make you

A rock musical featuring colorful

laugh and cry

costumes

(cid:2)From ２:００ p.m.（no breaks and a

(cid:2)Starts at １:００ p.m.（three hours

running time of one hour and ４５

long including two １５-minute

minutes）

breaks）

(cid:2)Actors available to talk in the

(cid:2)Opportunity to greet the cast in

lobby after the performance

their costumes before the show

(cid:2)No food or drinks available

starts

(cid:2)Free T-shirts for five lucky people

(cid:2)Light refreshments（snacks &

drinks）, original T-shirts, and other

goods sold in the lobby

Instructions: Which performance would you like to attend? Fill in the form

below and hand it in to your teacher today.

Choose（ ）one: Together Wherever (cid:2)
Name:

The Guitar Queen (cid:2)

― ４ ―

（２６１０―４）

問 １ What are you told to do after reading the handout?

１

(cid:2) Complete and hand in the bottom part.

(cid:3) Find out more about the performances.

(cid:4) Talk to your teacher about your decision.

(cid:5) Write your name and explain your choice.

問 ２ Which is true about both performances?

２

(cid:2) No drinks can be purchased before the show.

(cid:3) Some T-shirts will be given as gifts.

(cid:4) They will finish at the same time.

(cid:5) You can meet performers at the theaters.

― ５ ―

（２６１０―５）

Ｂ You are a senior high school student interested in improving your English

during the summer vacation. You find a website for an intensive English

summer camp run by an international school.

GIS

Galley International School（GIS）has provided

intensive English summer camps for senior high

school students in Japan since １９８９.

Spend two

Intensive English
Summer Camp

weeks in an all-English environment!

Dates: August １-１４，２０２３

Location: Lake Kawaguchi Youth Lodge, Yamanashi Prefecture

Cost: １２０，０００ yen,

including food and accommodation （additional fees for

optional activities such as kayaking and canoeing）

Courses Offered

◆FOREST: You’ll master basic grammar structures, make short speeches on

simple topics, and get pronunciation tips. Your instructors have taught

English for over ２０ years in several countries. On the final day of the camp,

you’ll take part in a speech contest while all the other campers listen.

◆MOUNTAIN: You’ll work in a group to write and perform a skit in English.

Instructors for this course have worked at theater schools in New York City,

London, and Sydney. You’ll perform your skit for all the campers to enjoy on

August １４.

◆SKY: You’ll learn debating skills and critical thinking in this course. Your

instructors have been to many countries to coach debate teams and some

have published best-selling textbooks on the subject. You’ll do a short

debate in front of all the other campers on the last day. （Note: Only those

with an advanced level of English will be accepted.）

― ６ ―

（２６１０―６）

▲Application

Step １: Fill in the online application HERE by May ２０，２０２３.

Step ２: We’ll contact you to set up an interview to assess your English ability

and ask about your course preference.

Step ３: You’ll be assigned to a course.

問 １ All GIS instructors have

３ .

(cid:2) been in Japan since １９８９

(cid:3) won international competitions

(cid:4) worked in other countries

(cid:5) written some popular books

問 ２ On the last day of the camp, campers will

４ .

(cid:2) assess each other’s performances

(cid:3) compete to receive the best prize

(cid:4) make presentations about the future

(cid:5) show what they learned at the camp

問 ３ What will happen after submitting your camp application?

５

(cid:2) You will call the English instructors.

(cid:3) You will take a written English test.

(cid:4) Your English level will be checked.

(cid:5) Your English speech topic will be sent.

― ７ ―

（２６１０―７）

第２問 （配点 ２０）

Ａ You want to buy a good pair of shoes as you walk a long way to school and

often get sore feet. You are searching on a UK website and find this

advertisement.

Navi５５presents the new Smart Support shoe line

Smart Support

shoes

are

strong,

long-lasting,

and

reasonably priced. They are available in three colours and

styles.

nano-chip

Special Features

Smart Support shoes have a nano-chip which analyses the shape of your feet

when connected to the iSupport application. Download the app onto your

smartphone, PC, tablet, and/or smartwatch. Then, while wearing the shoes,

let the chip collect the data about your feet. The inside of the shoe will

automatically adjust to give correct, personalised foot support. As with other

Navi５５ products, the shoes have our popular Route Memory function.

Advantages

Better Balance: Adjusting how you stand, the personalised support helps keep

feet, legs, and back free from pain.

Promotes Exercise: As they are so comfortable, you will be willing to walk

regularly.

Route Memory: The chip records your daily route, distance, and pace as you

walk.

Route Options: View your live location on your device, have the directions

play automatically in your earphones, or use your smartwatch to read

directions.

― ８ ―

（２６１０―８）

Customers’ Comments

● I like the choices for getting directions, and prefer using audio guidance to

visual guidance.

● I lost ２ kg in a month!

● I love my pair now, but it took me several days to get used to them.

● As they don’t slip in the rain, I wear mine all year round.

● They are so light and comfortable I even wear them when cycling.

● Easy to get around! I don’t need to worry about getting lost.

● They look great. The app’s basic features are easy to use, but I wouldn’t

pay for the optional advanced ones.

問 １ According to the maker’s statements, which best describes the new shoes?

６

(cid:2) Cheap summer shoes

(cid:3) High-tech everyday shoes

(cid:4) Light comfortable sports shoes

(cid:5) Stylish colourful cycling shoes

問 ２ Which benefit offered by the shoes is most likely to appeal to you?

７

(cid:2) Getting more regular exercise

(cid:3) Having personalised foot support

(cid:4) Knowing how fast you walk

(cid:5) Looking cool wearing them

― ９ ―

（２６１０―９）

問 ３ One opinion stated by a customer is that

８ .

(cid:2) the app encourages fast walking

(cid:3) the app’s free functions are user-friendly

(cid:4) the shoes are good value for money

(cid:5) the shoes increase your cycling speed

問 ４ One customer’s comment mentions using audio devices. Which benefit is

this comment based on?

９

(cid:2) Better Balance

(cid:3) Promotes Exercise

(cid:4) Route Memory

(cid:5) Route Options

問 ５ According to one customer’s opinion, １０ is recommended.

(cid:2) allowing time to get accustomed to wearing the shoes

(cid:3) buying a watch to help you lose weight

(cid:4) connecting to the app before putting the shoes on

(cid:5) paying for the iSupport advanced features

― １０ ―

（２６１０―１０）

Ｂ You are a member of the student council.

The members have been

discussing a student project helping students to use their time efficiently. To

get ideas, you are reading a report about a school challenge. It was written by

an exchange student who studied in another school in Japan.

Commuting Challenge

Most students come to my school by bus or train.

I often see a lot of

students playing games on their phones or chatting. However, they could also

use this time for reading or doing homework. We started this activity to help

students use their commuting time more effectively. Students had to complete

a commuting activity chart from January １７th to February １７th. A total of ３００

students participated: More than two thirds of them were second-years; about

a quarter were third-years; only １５ first-years participated. How come so few

first-years participated? Based on the feedback（given below）, there seems to

be an answer to this question:

Feedback from participants

HS: Thanks to this project, I got the highest score ever in an English

vocabulary test. It was easy to set small goals to complete on my way.

KF: My friend was sad because she couldn’t participate. She lives nearby and

walks to school. There should have been other ways to take part.

SS: My train is always crowded and I have to stand, so there is no space to

open a book or a tablet.

I only used audio materials, but there were not

nearly enough.

JH:

I kept a study log, which made me realise how I used my time. For some

reason most of my first-year classmates didn’t seem to know about this

challenge.

MN: I spent most of the time on the bus watching videos, and it helped me to

understand classes better. I felt the time went very fast.

― １１ ―

（２６１０―１１）

問 １ The aim of the Commuting Challenge was to help students to １１ .

(cid:2) commute more quickly

(cid:3) improve their test scores

(cid:4) manage English classes better

(cid:5) use their time better

問 ２ One fact about the Commuting Challenge is that １２ .

(cid:2) fewer than １０％ of the participants were first-years

(cid:3) it was held for two months during the winter

(cid:4) students had to use portable devices on buses

(cid:5) the majority of participants travelled by train

問 ３ From the feedback, １３ were activities reported by participants.

Ａ：keeping study records

Ｂ：learning language

Ｃ：making notes on tablets

Ｄ：reading lesson notes on mobile phones

(cid:2) Ａ and Ｂ

(cid:3) Ａ and Ｃ

(cid:4) Ａ and Ｄ

(cid:5) Ｂ and Ｃ

(cid:6) Ｂ and Ｄ

(cid:7) Ｃ and Ｄ

― １２ ―

（２６１０―１２）

問 ４ One of the participants’ opinions about the Commuting Challenge is that

１４ .

(cid:2) it could have included students who walk to school

(cid:3) the train was a good place to read books

(cid:4) there were plenty of audio materials for studying

(cid:5) watching videos for fun helped time pass quickly

問 ５ The author’s question is answered by １５ .

(cid:2) HS

(cid:3) JH

(cid:4) KF

(cid:5) MN

(cid:6) SS

― １３ ―

（２６１０―１３）

第３問 （配点 １５）

Ａ You are studying at Camberford University, Sydney. You are going on a

class camping trip and are reading the camping club’s newsletter to prepare.

Going camping? Read me!!!

Hi, I’m Kaitlyn. I want to share two practical camping lessons from my recent

club trip. The first thing is to divide your backpack into three main parts and

put the heaviest items in the middle section to

balance the backpack. Next, more frequently used

daily necessities should be placed in the top

section. That means putting your sleeping bag at

the bottom; food, cookware and tent in the middle;

brain

top section

middle section

and your clothes at the top. Most good backpacks

bottom section

come with a “brain” （an additional pouch） for

small easy-to-reach items.

Last year, in the evening, we had fun cooking and eating outdoors. I had been

sitting close to our campfire, but by the time I got back to the tent I was

freezing. Although I put on extra layers of clothes before going to sleep, I was

still cold. Then, my friend told me to take off my outer layers and stuff them

into my sleeping bag to fill up some of the empty space. This stuffing method

was new to me, and surprisingly kept me warm all night!

I hope my advice helps you stay warm and comfortable. Enjoy your camping

trip!

― １４ ―

（２６１０―１４）

問 １ If you take Kaitlyn’s advice, how should you fill your backpack?

１６

(cid:463)

(cid:464)

first aid kit,
map

first aid kit,
map

food, plates, cups, 
tent

jackets, shirts,
trousers

jackets, shirts,
trousers

food, plates, cups,
tent

sleeping bag

sleeping bag

(cid:465)

(cid:466)

food, plates,
cups, tent

first aid kit,
map

jackets, shirts,
trousers

jackets,
shirts,
trousers

first aid kit,
map

food, plates, cups,
tent

sleeping bag

sleeping bag

問 ２ According to Kaitlyn, １７ is the best method to stay warm all night.

(cid:2) avoiding going out of your tent

(cid:3) eating hot meals beside your campfire

(cid:4) filling the gaps in your sleeping bag

(cid:5) wearing all of your extra clothes

― １５ ―

（２６１０―１５）

Ｂ Your English club will make an “adventure room” for the school festival. To

get some ideas, you are reading a blog about a room a British man created.

Create Your Own “Home Adventure”

Last year, I took part in an “adventure room” experience.

I really enjoyed it,

so I created one for my children. Here are some tips on making your own.

Key Steps in Creating an Adventure

First, pick a theme. My sons are huge Sherlock Holmes fans, so I decided on

a detective mystery. I rearranged the furniture in our family room, and added

some old paintings and lamps I had to set the scene.

Next, create a storyline. Ours was The Case of the Missing Chocolates.

My children would be “detectives” searching for clues to locate the missing

sweets.

The third step is to design puzzles and challenges. A useful idea is to work

backwards from the solution. If the task is to open a box locked with a three-

digit padlock, think of ways to hide a three-digit code. Old books are fantastic

for hiding messages in.

I had tremendous fun underlining words on different

pages to form mystery sentences. Remember that the puzzles should get

progressively more difficult near the final goal. To get into the spirit, I then

― １６ ―

（２６１０―１６）

had the children wear costumes. My eldest son was excited when I handed

him a magnifying glass, and immediately began acting like Sherlock Holmes.

After that, the children started to search for the first clue.

This “adventure room” was designed specifically for my family, so I made

some of the challenges personal. For the final task, I took a couple of small

cups and put a plastic sticker in each one, then filled them with yogurt. The

“detectives” had to eat their way to the bottom to reveal the clues. Neither of

my kids would eat yogurt, so this truly was tough for them. During the

adventure, my children were totally focused, and they enjoyed themselves so

much that we will have another one next month.

問 １ Put the following events（(cid:2)〜(cid:3)）into the order in which they happened.

１８ → １９ → ２０ → ２１

(cid:2) The children ate food they are not fond of.

(cid:4) The children started the search for the sweets.

(cid:5) The father decorated the living room in the house.

(cid:3) The father gave his sons some clothes to wear.

問 ２ If you follow the father’s advice to create your own “adventure room,” you

should ２２ .

(cid:2) concentrate on three-letter words

(cid:4) leave secret messages under the lamps

(cid:5) make the challenges gradually harder

(cid:3) practise acting like Sherlock Holmes

― １７ ―

（２６１０―１７）

問 ３ From this story, you understand that the father ２３ .

(cid:2) became focused on searching for the sweets

(cid:3) created an experience especially for his children

(cid:4) had some trouble preparing the adventure game

(cid:5) spent a lot of money decorating the room

― １８ ―

（２６１０―１８）

第４問 （配点 １６）

Your teacher has asked you to read two articles about effective ways to study.

You will discuss what you learned in your next class.

How to Study Effectively: Contextual Learning!

Tim Oxford

Science Teacher, Stone City Junior High School

As a science teacher, I am always concerned about how to help students

who struggle to learn. Recently, I found that their main way of learning was

to study new information repeatedly until they could recall it all. For example,

when they studied for a test, they would use a workbook like the example

below and repeatedly say the terms that go in the blanks: “Obsidian is igneous,

dark, and glassy. Obsidian is igneous, dark, and glassy. . . .” These students

would feel as if they had learned the information, but would quickly forget it

and get low scores on the test. Also, this sort of repetitive learning is dull and

demotivating.

To help them learn, I tried applying “contextual learning.” In this kind of

learning, new knowledge is constructed through students’ own experiences.

For my science class, students learned the properties of different kinds of

rocks. Rather than having them memorize the terms from a workbook, I

brought a big box of various rocks to the class. Students examined the rocks

and identified their names based on the

characteristics they observed.

Thanks to this experience, I think these

students will always be able to describe the

properties of the rocks they studied. One

issue, however, is that we don’t always have

Rock name

Obsidian

Rock type

igneous

Coloring

Texture

dark

glassy

the

time

to do contextual

learning,

so

Picture

students will still study by doing drills. I don’t

think this is the best way. I’m still searching

for ways to improve their learning.

― ２０ ―

（２６１０―２０）

How to Make Repetitive Learning Effective

Cheng Lee

Professor, Stone City University

Mr. Oxford’s thoughts on contextual learning were insightful. I agree that

it can be beneficial. Repetition, though, can also work well. However, the

repetitive learning strategy he discussed, which is called “massed learning,” is

not effective. There is another kind of repetitive learning called “spaced

learning,” in which students memorize new information and then review it over

longer intervals.

The interval between studying is the key difference.

In Mr. Oxford’s

example, his students probably used their workbooks to study over a short

period of time. In this case, they might have paid less attention to the content

as they continued to review it. The reason for this is that the content was no

longer new and could easily be ignored.

In contrast, when the intervals are

longer, the students’ memory of the content is weaker. Therefore, they pay

more attention because they have to make a greater effort to recall what they

had learned before. For example, if students study with their workbooks, wait

three days, and then study again, they are likely to learn the material better.

Previous research has provided evidence for the advantages of spaced

learning. In one experiment, students in Groups A and B tried to memorize the

names of ５０ animals.
studied four times, but Group A studied

Both groups

at one-day intervals while Group B

studied at one-week intervals. As the

figure to the right shows, ２８ days after
the average
the last

learning session,

ratio of recalled names on a test was

higher for the spaced learning group.

I understand that students often

need to learn a lot of information in a

short period of time, and long intervals

between studying might not be practical.

You should understand,

though,

that

massed learning might not be good for

long-term recall.

100％

80％

60％

40％

20％

0％

The Average Ratio

of Recalled Names

Group A

Group B

― ２１ ―

（２６１０―２１）

問 １ Oxford believes that ２４ .

(cid:2) continuous drilling is boring

(cid:3) reading an explanation of terms is helpful

(cid:4) students are not interested in science

(cid:5) studying with a workbook leads to success

問 ２ In the study discussed by Lee, students took a test ２５ after their

final session.

(cid:2) four weeks

(cid:3) immediately

(cid:4) one day

(cid:5) one week

問 ３ Lee introduces spaced learning, which involves studying at ２６

intervals, in order to overcome the disadvantages of ２７ learning that

Oxford discussed. （Choose the best one for each box from options (cid:2)〜(cid:6).）

(cid:2) contextual

(cid:3) extended

(cid:4) fixed

(cid:5) irregular

(cid:7) massed

(cid:6) practical

― ２２ ―

（２６１０―２２）

問 ４ Both writers agree that

２８

is helpful

for

remembering new

information.

(cid:2) experiential learning

(cid:3) having proper rest

(cid:4) long-term attention

(cid:5) studying with workbooks

問 ５ Which additional information would be the best to further support Lee’s

argument for spaced learning?

２９

(cid:2) The main factor that makes a science class attractive

(cid:3) The most effective length of intervals for spaced learning

(cid:4) Whether students’ workbooks include visuals or not

(cid:5) Why Oxford’s students could not memorize information well

― ２３ ―

（２６１０―２３）

第５問 （配点 １５）

Your English teacher has told everyone in your class to find an inspirational

story and present it to a discussion group, using notes. You have found a

story written by a high school student in the UK.

Lessons from Table Tennis

Ben Carter

The ball flew at lightning speed to my backhand.

It was completely

unexpected and I had no time to react.

I lost the point and the match.

Defeat. . . Again! This is how it was in the first few months when I started

playing table tennis. It was frustrating, but I now know that the sport taught

me more than simply how to be a better athlete.

In middle school, I loved football.

I was one of the top scorers, but I

didn’t get along with my teammates. The coach often said that I should be

more of a team player.

I knew I should work on the problem, but

communication was just not my strong point.

I had to leave the football club when my family moved to a new town.

I

wasn’t upset as I had decided to stop playing football anyway. My new school

had a table tennis club, coached by the PE teacher, Mr Trent, and I joined

that. To be honest, I chose table tennis because I thought it would be easier

for me to play individually.

At first, I lost more games than I won.

I was frustrated and often went

straight home after practice, not speaking to anyone. One day, however, Mr

Trent said to me, “You could be a good player, Ben, but you need to think more

about your game. What do you think you need to do?”

“I don’t know,” I

replied, “focus on the ball more?”

“Yes,” Mr Trent continued, “but you also

need to study your opponent’s moves and adjust your play accordingly.

Remember, your opponent is a person, not a ball.”

This made a deep

impression on me.

― ２４ ―

（２６１０―２４）

I deliberately modified my style of play, paying closer attention to my

opponent’s moves.

It was not easy, and took a lot of concentration. My

efforts paid off, however, and my play improved. My confidence grew and I

started staying behind more after practice.

I was turning into a star player

and my classmates tried to talk to me more than before. I thought that I was

becoming popular, but our conversations seemed to end before they really got

started. Although my play might have improved, my communication skills

obviously hadn’t.

My older brother Patrick was one of the few people I could communicate

with well. One day, I tried to explain my problems with communication to him,

but couldn’t make him understand. We switched to talking about table tennis.

“What do you actually enjoy about it?” he asked me curiously.

I said I loved

analysing my opponent’s movements and making instant decisions about the

next move. Patrick looked thoughtful.

“That sounds like the kind of skill we

use when we communicate,” he said.

At that time, I didn’t understand, but soon after our conversation, I won a

silver medal

in a table tennis tournament. My classmates seemed really

pleased. One of them, George, came running over. “Hey, Ben!” he said, “Let’s

have a party to celebrate!” Without thinking, I replied, “I can’t.

I’ve got

practice.” He looked a bit hurt and walked off without saying anything else.

Why was he upset? I thought about this incident for a long time. Why did

he suggest a party? Should I have said something different? A lot of questions

came to my mind, but then I realised that he was just being kind.

If I’d said,

“Great idea. Thank you! Let me talk to Mr Trent and see if I can get some

time off practice,” then maybe the outcome would have been better. At that

moment Patrick’s words made sense. Without attempting to grasp someone’s

intention, I wouldn’t know how to respond.

I’m still not the best communicator in the world, but I definitely feel more

confident in my communication skills now than before. Next year, my friends

and I are going to co-ordinate the table tennis league with other schools.

― ２５ ―

（２６１０―２５）

Your notes:

Lessons from Table Tennis

About the author (Ben Carter)

・Played football at middle school.

・Started playing table tennis at his new school because he　　　　 .

30

Other important people

・Mr Trent: Ben’s table tennis coach, who helped him improve his play.

・Patrick: Ben’s brother, who　　　　 .

31

・George: Ben’s classmate, who wanted to celebrate his victory.

Influential events in Ben’s journey to becoming a better communicator

Began playing table tennis 　　　　　 　　　　　 　　　　　 　

32

33

34

35

What Ben realised after the conversation with George

He should have　　　　 .

36

What we can learn from this story

・　　　　 
37

・　　　　

38

― ２６ ―

（２６１０―２６）

問 １ Choose the best option for ３０ .

(cid:2) believed it would help him communicate

(cid:3) hoped to become popular at school

(cid:4) thought he could win games easily

(cid:5) wanted to avoid playing a team sport

問 ２ Choose the best option for ３１ .

(cid:2) asked him what he enjoyed about communication

(cid:3) encouraged him to be more confident

(cid:4) helped him learn the social skills he needed

(cid:5) told him what he should have said to his school friends

問 ３ Choose four out of the five options（(cid:2)〜(cid:6)）and rearrange them in the

order they happened.

３２ → ３３ → ３４ → ３５

(cid:2) Became a table tennis champion

(cid:3) Discussed with his teacher how to play well

(cid:4) Refused a party in his honour

(cid:5) Started to study his opponents

(cid:6) Talked to his brother about table tennis

― ２７ ―

（２６１０―２７）

問 ４ Choose the best option for ３６ .

(cid:2) asked his friend questions to find out more about his motivation

(cid:3) invited Mr Trent and other classmates to the party to show appreciation

(cid:4) tried to understand his friend’s point of view to act appropriately

(cid:5) worked hard to be a better team player for successful communication

問 ５ Choose the best two options for ３７ and ３８ . （The order does

not matter.）

(cid:2) Advice from people around us can help us change.

(cid:3) Confidence is important for being a good communicator.

(cid:4) It is important to make our intentions clear to our friends.

(cid:5) The support that teammates provide one another is helpful.

(cid:6) We can apply what we learn from one thing to another.

― ２８ ―

（２６１０―２８）

第６問 （配点 ２４）

Ａ You are in a discussion group in school. You have been asked to summarize

the following article. You will speak about it, using only notes.

Collecting

Collecting has existed at all

levels of society, across cultures and age

groups since early times. Museums are proof that things have been collected,

saved, and passed down for future generations. There are various reasons for

starting a collection. For example, Ms. A enjoys going to yard sales every

Saturday morning with her children. At yard sales, people sell unwanted

things in front of their houses. One day, while looking for antique dishes, an

unusual painting caught her eye and she bought it for only a few dollars. Over

time, she found similar pieces that left an impression on her, and she now has

a modest collection of artwork, some of which may be worth more than she

paid. One person’s trash can be another person’s treasure. Regardless of how

someone’s collection was started, it is human nature to collect things.

In １９８８, researchers Brenda Danet and Tamar Katriel analyzed ８０ years

of studies on children under the age of １０, and found that about ９０％ collected

something. This shows us that people like to gather things from an early age.

Even after becoming adults, people continue collecting stuff. Researchers in

the field generally agree that approximately one third of adults maintain this

behavior. Why is this? The primary explanation is related to emotions. Some

save greeting cards from friends and family, dried flowers from special events,

seashells from a day at the beach, old photos, and so on. For others, their

collection is a connection to their youth. They may have baseball cards, comic

books, dolls, or miniature cars that they have kept since they were small.

― ３０ ―

（２６１０―３０）

Others have an attachment to history; they seek and hold onto historical

documents, signed letters and autographs from famous people, and so forth.

For some individuals there is a social reason. People collect things such as

pins to share, show, and even trade, making new friends this way. Others, like

some holders of Guinness World Records, appreciate the fame they achieve for

their unique collection. Cards, stickers, stamps, coins, and toys have topped

the “usual” collection list, but some collectors lean toward the more

unexpected.

In September ２０１４, Guinness World Records recognized Harry

Sperl, of Germany, for having the largest hamburger-related collection in the

world, with ３，７２４ items; from T-shirts to pillows to dog toys, Sperl’s room is

filled with all things “hamburger.”

Similarly, Liu Fuchang, of China,

is a

collector of playing cards. He has １１，０８７ different sets.

Perhaps the easiest motivation to understand is pleasure. Some people

start collections for pure enjoyment. They may purchase and put up paintings

just to gaze at frequently, or they may collect audio recordings and old-

fashioned vinyl records to enjoy listening to their favorite music. This type of

collector is unlikely to be very interested in the monetary value of their

treasured music, while others collect objects specifically as an investment.

While it is possible to download certain classic games for free, having the

same game unopened in its original packaging, in “mint condition,” can make

the game worth a lot. Owning various valuable “collector’s items” could ensure

some financial security.

― ３１ ―

（２６１０―３１）

This behavior of collecting things will definitely continue into the distant

future. Although the reasons why people keep things will likely remain the

same, advances in technology will have an influence on collections. As

technology can remove physical constraints, it is now possible for an individual

to have vast digital

libraries of music and art

that would have been

unimaginable ３０ years ago.

It

is unclear,

though, what other impacts

technology will have on collections. Can you even imagine the form and scale

that the next generation’s collections will take?

― ３２ ―

（２６１０―３２）

Your notes:

Collecting

Introduction

　◆ Collecting has long been part of the human experience.

　◆ The yard sale story tells us that　　　　 .

39

Facts

　◆

40

　◆ Guinness World Records

　　　　Sperl: 3,724 hamburger-related items

　　　　Liu: 11,087 sets of playing cards

Reasons for collecting

　◆ Motivation for collecting can be emotional or social.

　◆ Various  reasons  mentioned:  　　　　,　　　　  ,  interest  in 

42

41

history, childhood excitement, becoming famous, sharing, etc.

Collections in the future

　◆

43

― ３３ ―

（２６１０―３３）

問 １ Choose the best option for ３９ .

(cid:2) a great place for people to sell things to collectors at a high price is a

yard sale

(cid:3) people can evaluate items incorrectly and end up paying too much

money for junk

(cid:4) something not important to one person may be of value to someone else

(cid:5) things once collected and thrown in another person’s yard may be

valuable to others

問 ２ Choose the best option for ４０ .

(cid:2) About two thirds of children do not collect ordinary things.

(cid:3) Almost one third of adults start collecting things for pleasure.
(cid:4) Approximately １０％ of kids have collections similar to their friends.
(cid:5) Roughly ３０％ of people keep collecting into adulthood.

問 ３ Choose the best options for ４１ and ４２ . （The order does not

matter.）

(cid:2) desire to advance technology

(cid:3) fear of missing unexpected opportunities

(cid:4) filling a sense of emptiness

(cid:5) reminder of precious events

(cid:6) reusing objects for the future

(cid:7) seeking some sort of profit

問 ４ Choose the best option for ４３ .

(cid:2) Collections will likely continue to change in size and shape.

(cid:3) Collectors of mint-condition games will have more digital copies of them.

(cid:4) People who have lost their passion for collecting will start again.

(cid:5) Reasons for collecting will change because of advances in technology.

― ３４ ―

（２６１０―３４）

Ｂ You are in a student group preparing for an international science

presentation contest. You are using the following passage to create your part

of the presentation on extraordinary creatures.

Ask someone to name the world’s toughest animal, and they might say the

Bactrian camel as it can survive in temperatures as high as ５０℃, or the Arctic

fox which can survive in temperatures lower than ―５８℃. However, both

answers would be wrong as it is widely believed that the tardigrade is the

toughest creature on earth.

Tardigrades, also known as water bears, are microscopic creatures, which

are between ０．１ mm to １．５ mm in length. They live almost everywhere, from

６，０００-meter-high mountains to ４，６００ meters below the ocean’s surface. They

can even be found under thick ice and in hot springs. Most live in water, but

some tardigrades can be found in some of the driest places on earth. One

researcher reported finding tardigrades living under rocks in a desert without

any recorded rainfall for ２５ years. All they need are a few drops or a thin

layer of water to live in. When the water dries up, so do they. They lose all

but three percent of their body’s water and their metabolism slows down to

０．０１％ of its normal speed. The dried-out tardigrade is now in a state called

“tun,” a kind of deep sleep.

It will continue in this state until it is once again

soaked in water. Then, like a sponge, it absorbs the water and springs back to

life again as if nothing had happened. Whether the tardigrade is in tun for １

week or １０ years does not really matter. The moment it is surrounded by

water, it comes alive again. When tardigrades are in a state of tun, they are

so tough that they can survive in temperatures as low as ―２７２℃ and as high

as １５１℃. Exactly how they achieve this is still not fully understood.

Perhaps even more amazing than their ability to survive on earth ― they

have been on earth for some ５４０ million years ― is their ability to survive in

space.

In ２００７, a team of European researchers sent a number of living

― ３５ ―

（２６１０―３５）

tardigrades into space on the outside of a rocket for １０ days. On their return

to earth, the researchers were surprised to see that ６８％ were still alive. This

means that for １０ days most were able to survive X-rays and ultraviolet

radiation １，０００ times more intense than here on earth. Later, in ２０１９, an

Israeli spacecraft crashed onto the moon and thousands of tardigrades in a

state of tun were spilled onto its surface. Whether these are still alive or not

is unknown as no one has gone to collect them ― which is a pity.

Tardigrades are shaped like a short cucumber. They have four short legs

on each side of their bodies. Some species have sticky pads at the end of each

leg, while others have claws. There are １６ known claw variations, which help

identify those species with claws. All tardigrades have a place for eyes, but

not all species have eyes. Their eyes are primitive, only having five cells in

total ― just one of which is light sensitive.

Basically, tardigrades can be divided into those that eat plant matter, and

those that eat other creatures. Those that eat vegetation have a ventral

mouth ― a mouth located in the lower part of the head, like a shark. The type

that eats other creatures has a terminal mouth, which means the mouth is at

the very front of the head, like a tuna. The mouths of tardigrades do not have

teeth. They do, however, have two sharp needles, called stylets, that they use

to pierce plant cells or the bodies of smaller creatures so the contents can be

sucked out.

Both types of tardigrade have rather simple digestive systems. The mouth

leads to the pharynx（throat）, where digestive juices and food are mixed.

Located above the pharynx is a salivary gland. This produces the juices that

flow into the mouth and help with digestion. After the pharynx, there is a tube

which transports food toward the gut. This tube is called the esophagus. The

middle gut, a simple stomach/intestine type of organ, digests the food and

absorbs the nutrients. The leftovers then eventually move through to the anus.

― ３６ ―

（２６１０―３６）

Your presentation slides:

Tardigrades:

Earth’s Ultimate Survivors

1．Basic Information

・0.1　mm to 1.5　mm in length
・shaped like a short cucumber
・
・
・
・

44

2．Habitats

3．Secrets to Survival

・live almost everywhere
・extreme environments such as...
　　6　km above sea level
　　4.6　km below sea level
　　in deserts
　　―272℃　to　151℃
　　in space(possibly)

“tun”

active

・

・

45

46

4．Digestive Systems

47

5．Final Statement

48

(cid:10005)

(cid:10006)

(cid:10004)

Mouth

(cid:10007)

(cid:10008)

Anus

― ３７ ―

（２６１０―３７）

問 １ Which of the following should you not include for ４４ ?

(cid:2) eight short legs

(cid:3) either blind or sighted

(cid:4) plant-eating or creature-eating

(cid:5) sixteen different types of feet

(cid:6) two stylets rather than teeth

問 ２ For the Secrets to Survival slide, select two features of the tardigrade

which best help it survive. （The order does not matter.） ４５ ・ ４６

(cid:2) In dry conditions, their metabolism drops to less than one percent of

normal.

(cid:3) Tardigrades in a state of tun are able to survive in temperatures

exceeding １５１℃.

(cid:4) The state of tun will cease when the water in a tardigrade’s body is

above ０．０１％.

(cid:5) Their shark-like mouths allow them to more easily eat other creatures.

(cid:6) They have an ability to withstand extreme levels of radiation.

問 ３ Complete the missing labels on the illustration of a tardigrade for the

Digestive Systems slide.

４７

(cid:2)  Esophagus

 Stylets

(cid:3)  Pharynx

 Esophagus
(cid:4)  Salivary gland

 Stylets

 Pharynx

 Middle gut

 Salivary gland

 Stylets

 Middle gut

 Esophagus

 Pharynx

 Salivary gland

 Middle gut

(cid:5)  Salivary gland

 Middle gut

 Stylets

 Esophagus

 Pharynx

(cid:6)  Stylets

 Salivary gland

 Pharynx

 Middle gut

 Esophagus

― ３８ ―

（２６１０―３８）

問 ４ Which is the best statement for the final slide?

４８

(cid:2) For thousands of years, tardigrades have survived some of the harshest

conditions on earth and in space. They will live longer than humankind.

(cid:3) Tardigrades are from space and can live in temperatures exceeding the

limits of the Arctic fox and Bactrian camel, so they are surely stronger

than human beings.

(cid:4) Tardigrades are, without a doubt, the toughest creatures on earth. They

can survive on the top of mountains; at the bottom of the sea;

in the

waters of hot springs; and they can also thrive on the moon.

(cid:5) Tardigrades have survived some of the harshest conditions on earth, and

at least one trip into space. This remarkable creature might outlive the

human species.

問 ５ What can be inferred about sending tardigrades into space?

４９

(cid:2) Finding out whether the tardigrades can survive in space was never

thought to be important.

(cid:3) Tardigrades, along with other creatures that have been on earth for

millions of years, can withstand X-rays and ultraviolet radiation.

(cid:4) The Israeli researchers did not expect so many tardigrades to survive

the harsh environment of space.

(cid:5) The reason why no one has been to see if tardigrades can survive on the

moon’s surface attracted the author’s attention.

― ３９ ―

（２６１０―３９）

