英

語（リーディング）

各大問の英文や図表を読み，解答番号 １ 〜 ４９ にあてはまるものとして

最も適当な選択肢を選びなさい。

第１問 （配点 １０）

Ａ You are studying English at a language school in the US. The school is

planning an event. You want to attend, so you are reading the flyer.

The Thorpe English Language School

International Night

Friday, May ２４, ５ p.m.-８ p.m.

Entrance Fee: $５

The Thorpe English Language School（TELS）is organizing an international
exchange event. TELS students don’t need to pay the entrance fee. Please

present your student ID at the reception desk in the Student Lobby.

● Enjoy foods from various parts of the world

Have you ever tasted hummus from the Middle East? How about tacos

from Mexico? Couscous from North Africa? Try them all!

● Experience different languages and new ways to communicate

Write basic expressions such as “hello” and “thank you” in Arabic, Italian,

Japanese, and Spanish. Learn how people from these cultures use facial

expressions and their hands to communicate.

● Watch dance performances

From ７ p.m. watch flamenco, hula, and samba dance shows
on the stage! After each dance, performers will teach

some basic steps. Please join in.

Lots of pictures, flags, maps, textiles, crafts, and games will be displayed in

the hall.

If you have some pictures or items from your home country which

can be displayed at the event, let a school staff member know by May １７!

― ４ ―

（２１１０―４）

問 １ To join the event free of charge, you must

１ .

(cid:2) bring pictures from your home country

(cid:3) consult a staff member about the display

(cid:4) fill out a form in the Student Lobby

(cid:5) show proof that you are a TELS student

問 ２ At the event, you can

２ .

(cid:2) learn about gestures in various cultures

(cid:3) participate in a dance competition

(cid:4) read short stories in foreign languages

(cid:5) try cooking international dishes

― ５ ―

（２１１０―５）

Ｂ You are an exchange student in the US and next week your class will go on a

day trip. The teacher has provided some information.

Tours of Yentonville

The Yentonville Tourist Office offers three city tours.

The History Tour

The day will begin with a visit to St. Patrick’s Church, which

was built when the city was established in the mid-１８００s.

Opposite the church is the early-２０th-century Mayor’s House.

There will be a tour of the house and its beautiful garden.

Finally, cross the city by public bus and visit the Peace Park. Opened soon

after World War Ⅱ, it was the site of many demonstrations in the １９６０s.

The Arts Tour

The morning will be spent in the Yentonville Arts District. We

will begin in the Art Gallery where there are many paintings

from Europe and the US. After lunch, enjoy a concert across

the street at the Bruton Concert Hall before walking a short

distance to the Artists’ Avenue. This part of the district was

developed several years ago when new artists’ studios and the

nearby Sculpture Park were created. Watch artists at work in their studios

and afterwards wander around the park, finding sculptures among the trees.

The Sports Tour

First thing in the morning, you can watch the Yentonville

Lions football team training at their open-air facility in

the suburbs.

In the afternoon, travel by subway to the

Yentonville Hockey Arena, completed last fall.

Spend

some time in its exhibition hall to learn about the arena’s

unique design. Finally, enjoy a professional hockey game in the arena.

Yentonville Tourist Office, January, ２０２４

― ６ ―

（２１１０―６）

問 １ Yentonville has

３ .

(cid:2) a church built ２５０ years ago when the city was constructed

(cid:3) a unique football training facility in the center of the town

(cid:4) an art studio where visitors can create original works of art

(cid:5) an arts area with both an art gallery and a concert hall

問 ２ On all three tours, you will

４ .

(cid:2) learn about historic events in the city

(cid:3) see people demonstrate their skills

(cid:4) spend time both indoors and outdoors

(cid:5) use public transportation to get around

問 ３ Which is the newest place in Yentonville you can visit on the tours?

５

(cid:2) The Hockey Arena

(cid:3) The Mayor’s House

(cid:4) The Peace Park

(cid:5) The Sculpture Park

― ７ ―

（２１１０―７）

第２問 （配点 ２０）

Ａ You are an exchange student at a high school in the UK and find this flyer.

Invitation to the Strategy Game Club

Have you ever wanted to learn strategy games like chess, shogi, or go? They

are actually more than just games. You can learn skills such as thinking

logically and deeply without distractions. Plus, these games are really fun!

This club is open to all students of our school. Regardless of skill level, you

are welcome to join.

We play strategy games together and. . .

● learn basic moves from demonstrations by club members

● play online against club friends

● share tips on our club webpage

● learn the history and etiquette of each game

● analyse games using computer software

● participate in local and national tournaments

Regular meetings: Wednesday afternoons in Room ３０１, Student Centre

Member Comments

― My mind is clearer, calmer, and more focused in class.

―

It’s cool to learn how some games have certain similarities.

― At tournaments, I like discussing strategies with other participants.

― Members share Internet videos that explain practical strategies for chess.

―

―

It’s nice to have friends who give good advice about go.

I was a complete beginner when I joined, and I had no problem!

― ８ ―

（２１１０―８）

問 １ According to the flyer, which is true about the club?

６

(cid:2) Absolute beginners are welcome.

(cid:3) Members edit computer programs.

(cid:4) Professional players give formal demonstrations.

(cid:5) Students from other schools can join.

問 ２ Which of the following is not mentioned as a club activity?

７

(cid:2) Having games with non-club members

(cid:3) Playing matches against computers

(cid:4) Sharing game-playing ideas on the Internet

(cid:5) Studying the backgrounds of strategy games

問 ３ One opinion stated by a member is that

８ .

(cid:2) comparing different games is interesting

(cid:3) many videos about go are useful

(cid:4) members learn tips at competitions

(cid:5) regular meetings are held off campus

― ９ ―

（２１１０―９）

問 ４ The club invitation and a member’s comment both mention that

９ .

(cid:2) new members must demonstrate experience

(cid:3) online support is necessary to be a good player

(cid:4) shogi is a logical and stimulating game

(cid:5) strategy games help improve one’s concentration

問 ５ This club is most likely suitable for students who want to １０ .

(cid:2) create their own computer strategy games

(cid:3) improve their skill level of playing strategy games

(cid:4) learn proper British etiquette through playing strategy games

(cid:5) spend weekends playing strategy games in the club room

― １０ ―

（２１１０―１０）

Ｂ You are a college student going to study in the US and need travel insurance.

You find this review of an insurance plan written by a female international

student who studied in the US for six months.

There are many things to consider before traveling abroad: pack appropriate

clothes, prepare your travel expenses, and don’t

forget medication （ if

necessary）. Also, you should purchase travel insurance.

When I studied at Fairville University in California, I bought travel insurance

from TravSafer International.

I signed up online in less than １５ minutes and

was immediately covered. They accept any form of payment, usually on a

monthly basis. There were three plans. All plans include a one-time health

check-up.

The Premium Plan is $１００/month. The plan provides ２４-hour medical support

through a smartphone app and telephone service. Immediate financial support

will be authorized if you need to stay in a hospital.

The Standard Plan worked best for me.

It had the ２４-hour telephone

assistance and included a weekly email with tips for staying healthy in a

foreign country. It wasn’t cheap: $７５/month. However, it was nice to get the

optional １５％ discount because I paid for six months of coverage in advance.

If your budget is limited, you can choose the Economy Plan, which is

$２５/month. It has the ２４-hour telephone support like the other plans but only

covers emergency care. Also, they can arrange a taxi to a hospital at a

reduced cost if considered necessary by the support center.

I never got sick or hurt, so I thought it was a waste of money to get insurance.

Then my friend from Brazil broke his leg while playing soccer and had to

spend a few days in a hospital. He had chosen the Premium Plan and it

covered everything! I realized how important insurance is―you know that you

will be supported when you are in trouble.

― １１ ―

（２１１０―１１）

問 １ According to the review, which of the following is true?

１１

(cid:2) Day and night medical assistance is available with the most expensive

plan.

(cid:3) The cheapest plan includes free hospitalization for any reason.

(cid:4) The mid-level plan does not include the one-time health check-up.

(cid:5) The writer’s plan cost her over $１００ every month.

問 ２ Which is not included in the cheapest option?

１２

(cid:2) Email support

(cid:3) Emergency treatment

(cid:4) Telephone help desk

(cid:5) Transport assistance

― １２ ―

（２１１０―１２）

問 ３ Which is the best combination that describes TravSafer International?

１３

Ａ：They allow monthly payments.

Ｂ：They design scholarship plans for students.

Ｃ：They help you remember your medication.

Ｄ：They offer an Internet-based registration system.

Ｅ：They require a few days to process the application form.

(cid:2) Ａ and Ｄ

(cid:3) Ａ and Ｅ

(cid:4) Ｂ and Ｄ

(cid:5) Ｂ and Ｅ

(cid:6) Ｃ and Ｄ

問 ４ The writer’s opinion of her chosen plan is that １４ .

(cid:2) it prevented her from being health conscious

(cid:3) she was not satisfied with the telephone assistance

(cid:4) the option for cost reduction was attractive

(cid:5) the treatment for her broken leg was covered

問 ５ Which of the following best describes the writer’s attitude?

１５

(cid:2) She believes the smartphone app is useful.

(cid:3) She considers travel preparation to be important.

(cid:4) She feels the US medical system is unique in the world.

(cid:5) She thinks a different hospital would have been better for her friend.

― １３ ―

（２１１０―１３）

第３問 （配点 １５）

Ａ Susan, your English ALT’s sister, visited your class last month. Now back in

the UK, she wrote on her blog about an event she took part in.

Hi!

I participated in a photo rally for

foreign tourists with my friends: See

the rules on the right. As photo rally

beginners, we decided to aim for only

five of the checkpoints.

In three

minutes, we arrived at our

first

target, the city museum.

In quick

succession, we made the second,

third, and fourth targets.

Things

were going smoothly! But, on the

way to the last target, the statue of

a famous samurai from the city, we

got lost. Time was running out and

my feet were hurting from walking

for over two hours. We stopped a man with a pet monkey for help, but neither

our Japanese nor his English were good enough. After he’d explained the way

using gestures, we realised we wouldn’t have enough time to get there and

would have to give up. We took a photo with him and said goodbye. When we

got back to Sakura City Hall, we were surprised to hear that the winning team

had completed １９ checkpoints. One of our photos was selected to be on the

event website（click here）. It reminds me of the man’s warmth and kindness:

our own “gold medal.”

― １４ ―

（２１１０―１４）

問 １ You click the link in the blog. Which picture appears?

１６

(cid:463)

(cid:465)

(cid:464)

(cid:466)

Photo Rally @ Sakura City
GOAL!

M
さくら市博物館

問 ２ You are asked to comment on Susan’s blog. Which would be an

appropriate comment to her?

１７

(cid:2) I want to see a picture of you wearing the gold medal!

(cid:3) You did your best. Come back to Japan and try again!

(cid:4) You reached １９ checkpoints in three hours? Really? Wow!!

(cid:5) Your photo is great! Did you upgrade your phone?

― １５ ―

（２１１０―１５）

Ｂ You are going to participate in an English Day. As preparation, you are
reading an article in the school newspaper written by Yuzu, who took part in it
last year.

Virtual Field Trip to a South Sea Island

This year, for our English Day, we participated in a virtual science tour. The
winter weather had been terrible, so we were excited to see the tropical
scenery of the volcanic island projected on the screen.

First, we “took a road trip” to learn about the geography of the island, using
navigation software to view the route. We “got into the car,” which our
teacher, Mr Leach, sometimes stopped so we could look out of the window and
get a better sense of the rainforest. Afterwards, we asked Mr Leach about
what we’d seen.

Later, we “dived into the ocean” and learnt about the diversity of marine
creatures. We observed a coral reef via a live camera. Mr Leach asked us if
we could count the number of creatures, but there were too many! Then he
showed us an image of the ocean １０ years ago. The reef we’d seen on camera
was dynamic, but in the photo it was even more full of life.
It looked so
different after only １０ years! Mr Leach told us human activity was affecting
the ocean and it could be totally ruined if we didn’t act now.

a

created

In the evening, we studied astronomy under a
“perfect starry sky.” We put up tents in the
gymnasium and
temporary
planetarium on the ceiling using a projector.
We were fascinated by the sky full of
constellations, shooting stars, and the Milky
Way. Someone pointed out one of the brightest lights and asked Mr Leach if it
was Venus, a planet close to Earth. He nodded and explained that humans
have created so much artificial light that hardly anything is visible in our city’s
night sky.

On my way home after school, the weather had improved and the sky was now
I looked up at the moonless sky and realised what Mr Leach had
cloudless.
told us was true.

― １６ ―

（２１１０―１６）

問 １ Yuzu’s article also included student comments（(cid:2)〜(cid:3)）describing the

events in the virtual tour. Put the comments in the order in which the events

(cid:463)

(cid:465)

happened.

１８ → １９ → ２０ → ２１

(cid:464)

I was wondering how dangerous 

It  was  really  shocking  that 

the island was.  I saw beautiful 

there  had  been  many  more 

birds  and  a  huge  snake  in  the 

creatures  before.    We  should 

jungle.

protect our beautiful oceans!

(cid:466)

Setting  up  a  camping  site  in 

We were lost for words during 

the  gymnasium  was  kind  of 

weird,  but  great  fun!    Better 

than  outside,  because  we 

weren’t bitten by bugs!

the  space  show  and  realised 
we  often  don’t  notice  things 
even though they’re there.

― １７ ―

（２１１０―１７）

問 ２ From the tour, Yuzu did not learn about the ２２ of the south sea

island.

(cid:2) marine ecosystem

(cid:3) night-time sky

(cid:4) seasonal weather

(cid:5) trees and plants

問 ３ On the way home, Yuzu looked up and most likely saw ２３ in the

night sky.

(cid:2) a shooting star

(cid:3) just a few stars

(cid:4) the full moon

(cid:5) the Milky Way

― １８ ―

（２１１０―１８）

第４問 （配点 １６）

Your college English club’s room has several problems and you want to redesign

it. Based on the following article and the results of a questionnaire given to

members, you make a handout for a group discussion.

What Makes a Good Classroom?

Diana Bashworth, writer at Trends in Education

As many schools work to improve their classrooms, it is important to have

some ideas for making design decisions. SIN, which stands for Stimulation,

Individualization, and Naturalness, is a framework that might be helpful to

consider when designing classrooms.

The first, Stimulation, has two aspects: color and complexity. This has to

do with the ceiling, floor, walls, and interior furnishings. For example, a

classroom that lacks colors might be uninteresting. On the other hand, a

classroom should not be too colorful. A bright color could be used on one wall,

on the floor, window coverings, or furniture.

In addition, it can be visually

distracting to have too many things displayed on walls. It is suggested that ２０
to ３０ percent of wall space remain free.

The next item in the framework is Individualization, which includes two

considerations: ownership and flexibility. Ownership refers to whether the

classroom feels personalized. Examples of this include having chairs and

desks that are suitable for student sizes and ages, and providing storage space

and areas for displaying student works or projects. Flexibility is about having

a classroom that allows for different kinds of activities.

Naturalness relates to the quality and quantity of light, both natural and

artificial, and the temperature of the classroom. Too much natural light may

make screens and boards difficult to see; students may have difficulty reading

or writing if there is a lack of light. In addition, hot summer classrooms do not

promote effective study.

Schools should install systems allowing for the

adjustment of both light and temperature.

While Naturalness is more familiar to us, and therefore often considered

the priority, the other components are equally important. Hopefully, these

ideas can guide your project to a successful end.

― ２０ ―

（２１１０―２０）

Results of the Questionnaire

Q1: Choose any items that match your use of the English club‛s room.

Number of club members　＝　38

Chatting in English
Chatting in Japanese
Checking out English books
Doing English homework
Playing smartphone games
Sleeping
Other

4

8

10

18

12

30

32

0

10

20

30

40
Respondents

Q2: What do you think about the current English club‛s room?

Main comments:

Student１（S１）: I can’t see the projector screen and whiteboard well on a sunny

day. Also, there’s no way to control the temperature.

S２: By the windows, the sunlight makes it hard to read. The other side of the

room doesn’t get enough light. Also, the books are disorganized and the

walls are covered with posters. It makes me feel uncomfortable.

S３: The chairs don’t really fit me and the desks are hard to move when we

work in small groups. Also, lots of members speak Japanese, even though

it’s an English club.

S４: The pictures of foreign countries on the walls make me want to speak

English. Everyone likes the sofas ― they are so comfortable that we often

use the room for sleeping!

S５: The room is so far away, so I hardly ever go there! Aren’t there other

rooms available?

S６: There’s so much gray in the room. I don’t like it. But it’s good that there

are plenty of everyday English phrases on the walls!

― ２１ ―

（２１１０―２１）

Your discussion handout:

Room Improvement Project

■ SIN Framework

― What it is: ２４

― SIN ＝ Stimulation, Individualization, Naturalness

■ Design Recommendations Based on SIN and Questionnaire Results

― Stimulation:

Cover the floor with a colorful rug and ２５ .

―

Individualization:

Replace room furniture.

（tables with wheels → easy to move around）

― Naturalness:

２６

Ａ．Install blinds on windows.

Ｂ．Make temperature control possible.

Ｃ．Move projector screen away from windows.

Ｄ．Place sofas near walls.

Ｅ．Put floor lamp in darker corner.

■ Other Issues to Discuss

― The majority of members

２７

the room as

２８ ’s comment

mentioned. How can we solve this?

― Based on both the graph and

２９ ’s comment, should we set a

language rule in the room to motivate members to speak English more?

― S５ doesn’t like the location, but we can’t change the room, so let’s think

about how to encourage members to visit more often.

― ２２ ―

（２１１０―２２）

問 １ Choose the best option for ２４ .

(cid:2) A guide to show which colors are appropriate to use in classrooms

(cid:3) A method to prioritize the needs of students and teachers in classrooms

(cid:4) A model to follow when planning classroom environments

(cid:5) A system to

understand

how classrooms

influence

students’

performance

問 ２ Choose the best option for ２５ .

(cid:2) move the screen to a better place

(cid:3) paint each wall a different color

(cid:4) put books on shelves

(cid:5) reduce displayed items

問 ３ You are

checking the handout.

You notice an error

in the

recommendations under Naturalness. Which of the following should you

remove?

２６

(cid:2) Ａ

(cid:3) Ｂ

(cid:4) Ｃ

(cid:5) Ｄ

(cid:6) Ｅ

― ２３ ―

（２１１０―２３）

問 ４ Choose the best options for ２７ and ２８ .

２７

(cid:2) borrow books from

(cid:3) can’t easily get to

(cid:4) don’t use Japanese in

(cid:5) feel anxious in

(cid:6) take naps in

２８

(cid:2) S１

(cid:3) S２

(cid:4) S３

(cid:5) S４

(cid:6) S５

(cid:7) S６

問 ５ Choose the best option for ２９ .

(cid:2) S１

(cid:3) S２

(cid:4) S３

(cid:5) S４

(cid:6) S５

(cid:7) S６

― ２４ ―

（２１１０―２４）

第５問 （配点 １５）

You are in an English discussion group, and it is your turn to introduce a story.

You have found a story in an English language magazine in Japan. You are

preparing notes for your presentation.

Maki’s Kitchen

“Irasshai-mase,” said Maki as two customers entered her restaurant,

Maki’s Kitchen. Maki had joined her family business at the age of １９ when

her father became ill.

After he recovered, Maki decided to continue.

Eventually, Maki’s parents retired and she became the owner. Maki had many

regular customers who came not only for the delicious food, but also to sit at

the counter and talk to her. Although her business was doing very well, Maki

occasionally daydreamed about doing something different.

“Can we sit at the counter?” she heard.

It was her old friends, Takuya

and Kasumi. A phone call a few weeks earlier from Kasumi to Takuya had

given them the idea to visit Maki and surprise her.

◆◆◆◆◆

Takuya’s phone vibrated, and he saw a familiar name, Kasumi.

“Kasumi!”

“Hi Takuya, I saw you in the newspaper. Congratulations!”

“Thanks. Hey, you weren’t at our ２０th high school reunion last month.”

“No, I couldn’t make it.

I can’t believe it’s been ２０ years since we

graduated. Actually, I was calling to ask if you’ve seen Maki recently.”

◆◆◆◆◆

Takuya’s family had moved to Kawanaka Town shortly before he started

high school. He joined the drama club, where he met Maki and Kasumi. The

three became inseparable. After graduation, Takuya left Kawanaka to become

an actor, while Maki and Kasumi remained. Maki had decided she wanted to

study at university and enrolled in a preparatory school. Kasumi, on the other

hand, started her career. Takuya tried out for various acting roles but was

constantly rejected; eventually, he quit.

― ２６ ―

（２１１０―２６）

Exactly one year after graduation, Takuya returned to Kawanaka with his

dreams destroyed. He called Maki, who offered her sympathy. He was

surprised to learn that Maki had abandoned her plan to attend university

because she had to manage her family’s restaurant. Her first day of work had

been the day he called. For some reason, Takuya could not resist giving Maki

some advice.

“Maki, I’ve always thought your family’s restaurant should change the

coffee it serves.

I think people in Kawanaka want a bolder flavor.

I’d be

happy to recommend a different brand,” he said.

“Takuya, you really know your coffee. Hey, I was walking by Café

Kawanaka and saw a help-wanted sign. You should apply!” Maki replied.

Takuya was hired by Café Kawanaka and became fascinated by the

science of coffee making. On the one-year anniversary of his employment,

Takuya was talking to Maki at her restaurant.

“Maki,” he said, “do you know what my dream is?”

“It must have something to do with coffee.”

“That’s right! It’s to have my own coffee business.”

“I can’t imagine a better person for it. What are you waiting for?”

Maki’s encouragement inspired Takuya. He quit his job, purchased a

coffee bean roaster, and began roasting beans. Maki had a sign in her

restaurant saying, “We proudly serve Takuya’s Coffee,” and this publicity

helped the coffee gain popularity in Kawanaka. Takuya started making good

money selling his beans. Eventually, he opened his own café and became a

successful business owner.

◆◆◆◆◆

Kasumi was reading the newspaper when she saw the headline:

TAKUYA’S CAFÉ ATTRACTING TOURISTS TO KAWANAKA TOWN.

“Who

would have thought that Takuya would be so successful?” Kasumi thought to

herself as she reflected on her past.

In the high school drama club, Kasumi’s duty was to put make-up on the

actors. No one could do it better than her. Maki noticed this and saw that a

cosmetics company called Beautella was advertising for salespeople.

She

encouraged Kasumi to apply, and, after graduation, she became an employee

of Beautella.

― ２７ ―

（２１１０―２７）

The work was tough; Kasumi went door to door selling cosmetics. On bad

days, she would call Maki, who would lift her spirits. One day, Maki had an

idea, “Doesn’t Beautella do make-up workshops?

I think you are more suited

for that. You can show people how to use the make-up. They’ll love the way

they look and buy lots of cosmetics!”

Kasumi’s company agreed to let her do workshops, and they were a hit!

Kasumi’s sales were so good that eight months out of high school, she had

been promoted, moving to the big city of Ishijima. Since then, she had steadily

climbed her way up the company ladder until she had been named vice-

president of Beautella this year.

“I wouldn’t be vice-president now without Maki,” she thought, “she helped

me when I was struggling, but I was too absorbed with my work in Ishijima to

give her support when she had to quit her preparatory school.” Glancing back

to the article, she decided to call Takuya.

◆◆◆◆◆

“Maki wasn’t at the reunion. I haven’t seen her in ages,” said Takuya.

“Same here. It’s a pity. Where would we be without her?” asked Kasumi.

The conversation became silent, as they wordlessly communicated their

guilt. Then, Kasumi had an idea.

◆◆◆◆◆

The three friends were talking and laughing when Maki asked, “By the

way, I’m really happy to see you two, but what brings you here?”

“Payback,” said Takuya.

“Have I done something wrong?” asked Maki.

“No. The opposite. You understand people incredibly well. You can

identify others’ strengths and show them how to make use of them. We’re

proof of this. You made us aware of our gifts,” said Takuya.

“The irony is that you couldn’t do the same for yourself,” added Kasumi.

“I think Ishijima University would be ideal for you.

It offers a degree

program in counseling that’s designed for people with jobs,” said Takuya.

“You’d have to go there a few times a month, but you could stay with me.

Also, Takuya can help you find staff for your restaurant,” said Kasumi.

Maki closed her eyes and imagined Kawanaka having both “Maki’s

Kitchen” and “Maki’s Counseling.” She liked that idea.

― ２８ ―

（２１１０―２８）

Your notes:

Maki ’s Kitchen

Story outline

Maki, Takuya, and Kasumi graduate from high school.

30

31

32

33

Maki begins to think about a second career.

About Maki

(cid:12255)　Age:

34

(cid:12255)　Occupation: restaurant owner

(cid:12255)　How she supported her friends:

　　　Provided Takuya with encouragement and

 Kasumi       

  and

35

36

.

.

Interpretation of key moments

(cid:12255)　Kasumi  and  Takuya  experience  an  uncomfortable  silence  on  the 

phone because they

37

.

(cid:12255)　In the final scene, Kasumi uses the word “irony” with Maki.  The 

irony is that Maki does not

38

.

― ２９ ―

（２１１０―２９）

　　
問 １ Choose four out of the five events（(cid:2)〜(cid:3)）and rearrange them in the

order they happened.

３０ → ３１ → ３２ → ３３

(cid:2) Kasumi becomes vice-president of her company.

(cid:4) Kasumi gets in touch with Takuya.

(cid:5) Maki gets her university degree.

(cid:6) Maki starts working in her family business.

(cid:3) Takuya is inspired to start his own business.

問 ２ Choose the best option for ３４ .

(cid:2) early ３０s

(cid:4) late ３０s

(cid:5) early ４０s

(cid:6) late ４０s

問 ３ Choose the best options for ３５ and ３６ .

(cid:2) made the product known to people

(cid:4) proposed a successful business idea

(cid:5) purchased equipment for the business

(cid:6) suggested moving to a bigger city

(cid:3) taught the necessary skills for success

― ３０ ―

（２１１０―３０）

問 ４ Choose the best option for ３７ .

(cid:2) do not want to discuss their success

(cid:3) have not spoken in a long time

(cid:4) regret not appreciating their friend more

(cid:5) think Maki was envious of their achievements

問 ５ Choose the best option for ３８ .

(cid:2) like to try different things

(cid:3) recognize her own talent

(cid:4) understand the ability she lacks

(cid:5) want to pursue her dreams

― ３１ ―

（２１１０―３１）

第６問 （配点 ２４）

Ａ Your English teacher has assigned this article to you. You need to prepare

notes to give a short talk.

Perceptions of Time

When you hear the word “time,” it is probably hours, minutes, and seconds

that immediately come to mind. In the late １９th century, however, philosopher

Henri Bergson described how people usually do not experience time as it is

measured by clocks（clock time）. Humans do not have a known biological

mechanism to measure clock time, so they use mental processes instead. This

is called psychological time, which everyone perceives differently.

If you were asked how long it had taken to finish your homework, you

probably would not know exactly. You would think back and make an

estimate.

In a １９７５ experiment, participants were shown either simple or

complex shapes for a fixed amount of time and asked to memorize them.

Afterwards, they were asked how long they had looked at the shapes. To

answer, they used a mental process called retrospective timing, which is

estimating time based on the information retrieved from memory. Participants

who were shown the complex shapes felt the time was longer, while the people

who saw the simple shapes experienced the opposite.

Another process to measure psychological time is called prospective

timing.

It is used when you are actively keeping track of time while doing

something.

Instead of using the amount of information recalled, the level of

attention given to time while doing the activity is used. In several studies, the

participants performed tasks while estimating the time needed to complete

them. Time seemed shorter for the people doing more challenging mental

activities which required them to place more focus on the task than on time.

― ３２ ―

（２１１０―３２）

Time felt longer for the participants who did simpler tasks and the longest for

those who were waiting or doing nothing.

Your emotional state can influence your awareness of time, too. For

example, you can be enjoying a concert so much that you forget about time.

Afterwards, you are shocked that hours have passed by in what seemed to be

the blink of an eye. To explain this, we often say, “Time flies when you’re

having fun.” The opposite occurs when you are bored.

Instead of being

focused on an activity, you notice the time. It seems to go very slowly as you

cannot wait for your boredom to end. Fear also affects our perception of time.

In a ２００６ study, more than ６０ people experienced skydiving for the first time.

Participants with high levels of unpleasant emotions perceived the time spent

skydiving to be much longer than it was in reality.

Psychological time also seems to move differently during life stages.

Children constantly encounter new information and have new experiences,

which makes each day memorable and seem longer when recalled. Also, time

creeps by for them as they anticipate upcoming events such as birthdays and

trips. For most adults, unknown information is rarely encountered and new

experiences become less frequent, so less mental focus is required and each

day becomes less memorable. However,

this is not always the case.

Daily routines are shaken up when drastic changes occur, such as changing

jobs or relocating to a new city.

In such cases, the passage of time for those

people is similar to that for children. But generally speaking, time seems to

accelerate as we mature.

Knowledge of psychological time can be helpful in our daily lives, as it

may help us deal with boredom. Because time passes slowly when we are not

mentally focused and thinking about time, changing to a more engaging

activity, such as reading a book, will help ease our boredom and speed up the

time. The next occasion that you hear “Time flies when you’re having fun,”

you will be reminded of this.

― ３３ ―

（２１１０―３３）

Your notes:

Perceptions of Time

Outline by paragraph

　1. 

39

　2. Retrospective timing 

　3. Prospective timing

　4.

40

　　　　Skydiving

　5. Effects of age

　　　　Time speeds up as we mature, but a 

41

.

　6. Practical tips

My original examples to help the audience

　A. Retrospective timing

　　　Example:

42

　B. Prospective timing

　　　Example:

43

問 １ Choose the best options for ３９ and ４０ .

(cid:2) Biological mechanisms

(cid:3) Effects of our feelings

(cid:4) Kinds of memory

(cid:5) Life stages

(cid:6) Ongoing research

(cid:7) Types of time

― ３４ ―

（２１１０―３４）

問 ２ Choose the best option for ４１ .

(cid:2) major lifestyle change at any age will likely make time slow down

(cid:3) major lifestyle change regardless of age will likely make time speed up

(cid:4) minor lifestyle change for adults will likely make time slow down

(cid:5) minor lifestyle change for children will likely make time speed up

問 ３ Choose the best option for ４２ .

(cid:2) anticipating a message from a classmate

(cid:3) memorizing your mother’s cellphone number

(cid:4) reflecting on how many hours you worked today

(cid:5) remembering that you have a meeting tomorrow

問 ４ Choose the best option for ４３ .

(cid:2) guessing how long you’ve been jogging so far

(cid:3) making a schedule for the basketball team summer camp

(cid:4) running into your tennis coach at the railway station

(cid:5) thinking about your last family vacation to a hot spring

― ３５ ―

（２１１０―３５）

Ｂ You are preparing a presentation for your science club, using the following

passage from a science website.

Chili Peppers: The Spice of Life

Tiny pieces of red spice in chili chicken add a nice touch of color, but

biting into even a small piece can make a person’s mouth burn as if it were on

fire. While some people love this, others want to avoid the painful sensation.

At the same time, though, they can eat sashimi with wasabi. This might lead

one to wonder what spiciness actually is and to ask where the difference

between chili and wasabi comes from.

Unlike sweetness, saltiness, and sourness, spiciness is not a taste. In fact,

we do not actually taste heat, or spiciness, when we eat spicy foods. The bite

we feel from eating chili peppers and wasabi is derived from different types of

compounds. Chili peppers get their heat from a heavier, oil-like element called

capsaicin.

Capsaicin leaves a lingering, fire-like sensation in our mouths

because it triggers a receptor called TRPV１. TRPV１ induces stress and tells

us when something is burning our mouths. Interestingly, there is a wide range

of heat across the different varieties of chili peppers, and the level depends on

the amount of capsaicin they contain. This is measured using the Scoville

Scale, which is also called Scoville Heat Units（SHU）. SHUs range from the

sweet and mild shishito pepper at ５０-２００ SHUs to the Carolina Reaper pepper,

which can reach up to ２．２ million.

Wasabi is considered a root, not a pepper, and does not contain capsaicin.

Thus, wasabi

is not ranked on the Scoville Scale. However, people have

compared the level of spice in it to chilis with around １，０００ SHUs, which is on

the lower end of the scale. The reason some people cannot tolerate chili spice

but can eat foods flavored with wasabi is that the spice compounds in it are

low in density. The compounds in wasabi vaporize easily, delivering a blast of

spiciness to our nose when we eat it.

Consuming chili peppers can have positive effects on our health, and much

research has been conducted into the benefits of capsaicin. When capsaicin

activates the TRPV１ receptor in a person’s body, it is similar to what happens

when they experience stress or pain from an injury. Strangely, capsaicin can

― ３６ ―

（２１１０―３６）

also make pain go away. Scientists found that TRPV１ ceases to be turned on

after

long-term exposure to chili peppers,

temporarily easing painful

sensations. Thus, skin creams containing capsaicin might be useful for people

who experience muscle aches.

Another benefit of eating chili peppers is that

they accelerate the

metabolism. A group of researchers analyzed ９０ studies on capsaicin and body

weight and found that people had a reduced appetite when they ate spicy

foods. This is because spicy foods increase the heart rate, send more energy

to the muscles, and convert fat into energy. Recently, scientists at the

University of Wyoming have created a weight-loss drug with capsaicin as a

main ingredient.

It is also believed that chili peppers are connected with food safety, which

might lead to a healthier life. When food is left outside of a refrigerated

environment, microorganisms multiply on it, which may cause sickness if

eaten. Studies have shown that capsaicin and other chemicals found in chili

peppers have antibacterial properties that can slow down or even stop

microorganism growth. As a result, food lasts longer and there are fewer

food-borne illnesses. This may explain why people in hot climates have a

tendency to use more chili peppers, and therefore, be more tolerant of spicier

foods due to repeated exposure. Also,

in the past, before there were

refrigerators, they were less likely to have food poisoning than people in cooler

climates.

Chili peppers seem to have health benefits, but can they also be bad for

our health? Peppers that are high on the Scoville Scale can cause physical

discomfort when eaten in large quantities. People who have eaten several of

the world’s hottest chilis in a short time have reported experiencing upset

stomachs, diarrhea, numb hands, and symptoms similar to a heart attack.

Ghost peppers, which contain one million SHUs, can even burn a person’s skin

if they are touched.

Luckily the discomfort some people feel after eating spicy foods tends to

go away soon―usually within a few hours. Despite some negative side effects,

spicy foods remain popular around the world and add a flavorful touch to the

table. Remember, it is safe to consume spicy foods, but you might want to be

careful about the amount of peppers you put in your dishes.

― ３７ ―

（２１１０―３７）

Presentation slides:

Chili Peppers:

The Spice of Life

Characteristics

chili peppers

wasabi

・oil-like elements ・ ４４

・triggering TRPV１・changing to vapor

・persistent feeling ・spicy rush

(cid:2)

(cid:3)

Positive Effects

Negative Effects

Capsaicin can...

４５

When eating too many strong chili

Ａ．reduce pain.

peppers in a short time,

Ｂ．give you more energy.

Ｃ．speed up your metabolism.

Ｄ．make you feel less stress.

Ｅ．decrease food poisoning.

・ ４６

・ ４７

(cid:4)

(cid:5)

Spice Tolerance

Closing Remark

４８

４９

(cid:6)

― ３８ ―

(cid:7)

（２１１０―３８）

問 １ What is the first characteristic of wasabi on Slide２?

４４

(cid:2) burning taste

(cid:3) fire-like sensation

(cid:4) lasting feeling

(cid:5) light compounds

問 ２ Which is an error you found on Slide３?

４５

(cid:2) Ａ

(cid:3) Ｂ

(cid:4) Ｃ

(cid:5) Ｄ

(cid:6) Ｅ

問 ３ Choose two options for Slide４. （The order does not matter.）

４６ ・ ４７

(cid:2) you might activate harmful bacteria.

(cid:3) you might experience stomach pain.

(cid:4) you might lose feeling in your hands.

(cid:5) your fingers might feel like they are on fire.

(cid:6) your nose might start hurting.

― ３９ ―

（２１１０―３９）

問 ４ What can be inferred about tolerance for spices for Slide ５?

４８

(cid:2) People with a high tolerance to chili peppers pay attention to the spices

used in their food.

(cid:3) People with a high tolerance to wasabi are scared of chili peppers’

negative effects.

(cid:4) People with a low tolerance to chili peppers can get used to their heat.

(cid:5) People with a low tolerance to wasabi cannot endure high SHU levels.

問 ５ Choose the most appropriate remark for Slide ６.

４９

(cid:2) Don’t be afraid. Eating spicy foods will boost your confidence.

(cid:3) Next time you eat chili chicken, remember its punch only stays for a

second.

(cid:4) Personality plays a big role in our spice preference, so don’t worry.

(cid:5) Unfortunately, there are no cures for a low wasabi tolerance.

(cid:6) When someone offers you some spicy food, remember it has some

benefits.

― ４０ ―

（２１１０―４０）

