
英語(リーディング) 
各大問の英文や図表を読み, 解答番号 1 
最も適当な選択肢を選びなさい。 
2 
48にあてはまるものとして 
第1問 (配点 10) 
A You are studying about Brazil in the international club at your senior high school. Your teacher asked you to do research on food in Brazil. You find a 
Brazilian cookbook and read about fruits used to make desserts. 
Popular Brazilian Fruits 
Cupuaçu 
• Smells and tastes like chocolate 
• 
• 
Great for desserts, such as cakes, and with yogurt 
Brazilians love the chocolate-flavored juice of this fruit. 
Jabuticaba 
• Looks like a grape 
· 
Eat them within three days of picking for 
a sweet flavor. 
· 
After they get sour, use them for making jams, jellies, and cakes. 
D 
Pitanga 
• Comes in two varieties, red and green Use the sweet red one for making cakes. 
• The sour green one is only for jams and jellies. 
Buriti 
• Orange inside, similar to a peach or a mango 
• Tastes very sweet, melts in your mouth Best for ice cream, cakes, and jams 
(2110-4) 
1 Both cupuaçu and buriti can be used to make 1 
1 a cake 
chocolate 
3 ice cream 
4 yogurt 
2 If you want to make a sour cake, the best fruit to use is 
1 buriti 
2 cupuaçu 
3 jabuticaba 
4 pitanga 
2 
LO 
5 
(2110-5) 
B You are looking at the website for the City Zoo in Toronto, Canada and you 
find an interesting contest announcement. You are thinking about entering the 
contest. 
Contest! 
Name a Baby Giraffe 
Let's welcome our newest animal to the City Zoo! 
A healthy baby giraffe was born on May 26 at the City Zoo. 
He's already walking and running around! 
He weighs 66 kg and is 180 cm tall. 
Your mission is to help his parents, Billy and Noelle, pick a name for their baby. 
How to Enter 
Click on the link here to submit your idea for his name and follow the 
directions. 
Enter Here 
Names are accepted starting at 12:00 a.m. on June 1 until 11:59 p.m. on June 7. 
Watch the baby giraffe on the live web camera to help you get ideas. 
→ Live Web Camera 
Each submission is $5. All money will go towards feeding the growing 
baby giraffe. 
Contest Schedule 
June 8 
June 9 
The zoo staff will choose five finalists from all the entries. These names will be posted on the zoo's website by 5:00 p.m. 
How will the parents decide on the winning name? Click on the live stream link between 11:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. 
to find out! 
→ Live Stream 
Check our website for the winning name after 12:00 p.m. 
Prizes 
All five contest finalists will receive free one-day zoo passes valid until the end 
of July. 
The one who submitted the winning name will also get a special photo of the baby giraffe with his family, as well as a private Night Safari Tour! 
6 
(2110-6) 
1 You can enter this contest between 3 
1 May 26 and May 31 
2 June 1 and June 7 
3 
June 8 and June 9 
4 June 10 and July 31 
2 When submitting your idea for the baby giraffe's name, you must 
4 
1 buy a day pass 
(2 
pay the submission fee 
(3 
spend five dollars at the City Zoo 
(4) 
watch the giraffe through the website 
3 If the name you submitted is included among the five finalists, you will 
5 
get free entry to the zoo for a day 
2 have free access to the live website 
(3 
meet and feed the baby giraffe 
take a picture with the giraffe's family 
7 
― 
(2110-7) 
第2問 (配点 20) 
A You are on a Future Leader summer programme, which is taking place on a 
university campus in the UK. You are reading the information about the 
library so that you can do your coursework. 
Abermouth University Library 
Open from 8 am to 9 pm 
2022 Handout 
Library Card: Your student ID card is also your library card and photocopy 
card. It is in your welcome pack. 
Borrowing Books 
You can borrow a maximum of eight books at one time for seven days. To 
check books out, go to the Information Desk, which is on the first floor. If books are not returned by the due date, you will not be allowed to borrow library books again for three days from the day the books are returned. 
Using Computers 
floor. 
Computers with Internet connections are in the Computer Workstations by the 
main entrance on the first 
Students may bring their own laptop computers and tablets into the library, but may use them only in the Study Area on the second floor. Students are 
asked to work quietly, and also not to reserve seats for friends. 
Library Orientations 
On Tuesdays at 10 am, 20-minute library orientations are held in the Reading 
Room on the third floor. Talk to the 
Information Desk staff for details. 
Comments from Past Students 
The library orientation was 
really good. 
The materials 
were great, too! The Study Area can get really crowded. Get there as 
early as possible to get a 
seat! 
The Wi-Fi inside the library is quite slow, but the one at the coffee shop next door is good. By the way, you cannot bring any drinks into the library. 
The staff at the Information 
Desk answered all my 
questions. 
Go there if you 
need any help! 
On the ground floor there are some TVs for watching the 
library's videos. When watching videos, you need to use your own earphones or headphones. Next to the TV s 
there are photocopiers. 
(2110-8) 
問 1 
6 
are two things you can do at the library. 
A bring in coffee from the coffee shop 
B 
save seats for others in the Study Area 
C 
use the photocopiers on the second floor 
D 
use your ID to make photocopies 
E use your laptop in the Study Area 
1 
A and B 
2 A and C 
3 
B and E 
C and D 
5 D and E 
2 You are at the main entrance of the library and want to go to the 
7 
orientation. You need to 
1 go down one floor 
go up one floor 
(3) 
go up two floors 
stay on the same floor 
問 3 
8 
near the main entrance to the library. 
1 The Computer Workstations are 
2 The Reading Room is 
3 The Study Area is 
4 The TVs are 
9 
(2110-9) 
4 If you borrowed three books on 2 August and returned them on 10 August, 
you could 
9 
1 borrow eight more books on 10 August 
borrow seven more books on 10 August 
(3) not borrow any more books before 13 August 
not borrow any more books before 17 August 
5 One fact stated by a previous student is that 10 
1 headphones or earphones are necessary when watching videos 
2 
the library is open until 9 pm 
(3 the library orientation handouts are wonderful 
the Study Area is often empty 
10 
(2110-10) 
B You are the editor of a school English paper. David, an exchange student 
from the UK, has written an article for the paper. 
Do you like animals? The UK is known as a nation of animal-lovers; two in five 
UK homes have pets. This is lower than in the US, where more than half of 
homes have pets. However, Australia has the highest percentage of homes 
with pets! 
Why is this so? Results of a survey done in Australia give us some answers. 
Pet owners mention the following advantages of living with pets: 
The love, happiness, and friendship pets give (90%); 
The feeling of having another family member (over 60% of dog and 
cat owners); 
The happy times pets bring. Most owners spend 3-4 hours with their 
'fur babies' every day and around half of all dog and cat owners let 
their pets sleep with them! 
One disadvantage is that pets have to be cared for 
when owners go away. It may be difficult to organise 
care for them; 25% of owners take their pets on 
holidays or road trips. 
These results suggest that keeping pets is a good thing. On the other hand, 
since coming to Japan, I have seen other problems such as space, time, and 
cost. Still, I know people here who are content living in small flats with pets. 
Recently, I heard that little pigs are becoming popular as pets in Japan. Some 
people take their pig (s) for a walk, which must be fun, but I wonder how easy 
it is to keep pigs inside homes. 
11 - 
(2110-11) 
1 In terms of the ratios for homes with pets, which shows the countries' 
ranking from highest to lowest? 
1 Australia 
3 
the UK- the US 
Australia the US the UK 
― 
The UK - Australia the US 
― 
The UK the US-Australia 
The US-Australia - the UK 
6 The US the UK-Australia 
11 
2 According to David's report, one advantage of having pets is that 
1 
you can save money 
you can sleep longer 
3 
you will become popular 
your life can be more enjoyable 
3 The statement that best reflects one finding from the survey is 
13 
1 'I feel uncomfortable when I watch TV with my cat.' 
2 'I spend about three hours with my pet every day.' 
3 'Most pets like going on car trips.' 
4 'Pets need a room of their own.' 
12 - 
12 
― 
(2110-12) 
4 Which best summarises David's opinions about having pets in Japan? 
14 
1 It is not troublesome to keep pets. 
✔ People might stop keeping pets. 
3 Pet owners have more family members. 
4 Some people are happy to keep pets inside their homes. 
5 Which is the most suitable title for the article? 15 
1 Does Your Pet Sleep on Your Bed? 
(2 What Does Keeping Pets Give Us? 
3) What Pet Do You Have? 
4 Why Not Keep a Pet Pig? 
13 
(2110-13) 
第3問 (配点 15) 
A You are interested in how Japanese culture is represented in other countries. 
You are reading a young UK blogger's post. 
Emily Sampson 
Monday, 5 July, 8.00 pm 
On the first two Sundays in July every year, there is an intercultural event in Winsfield called A Slice of Japan. I had a chance to go there yesterday. It is definitely worth visiting! There were many authentic food stands. called yatai, hands-on activities, and some great performances. The yatai served green-tea ice cream, takoyaki, and yakitori. I tried green-tea ice cream and takoyaki. The takoyaki was especially delicious. You should try 
some! 
I saw three performances. One of them was a rakugo comedy given in English. Some people were laughing, but somehow I didn't find it funny. It may be because I don't know much about Japanese culture. For me, the other two, the taiko and the koto, were the highlights. The taiko were 
powerful, and the koto was relaxing. 
I attended a workshop and a cultural experience, which were fun. In the workshop, I learnt how to make onigiri. Although the shape of the one I made was a little odd, it tasted good. The nagashi-somen experience was really interesting! It involved trying to catch cooked noodles with chopsticks as they slid down a bamboo water slide. It was very difficult to 
catch them. 
If you want to experience a slice of Japan, this festival is for you! I took a 
picture of the flyer. Check it out. 
14 
- 
(2110-14) 
Food Stands 
Green-tea ice cream 
A Slice of Japan 
The Culture Park, Winsfield 
Held on first & second Sundays in July (9.00 am - 4.00 pm) 
Hands-on Activities 
Traditional Performances 
Nagashi-somen (noodles) Experience 
Koto 
(harp) 
Green-tea 
Ice Cream 
Takoyaki 
(octopus snack) 
Taiko (drums) 
Yakitori 
Onigiri (rice balls) Workshop 
(chicken skewers) 
Rakugo 
(comic 
storytelling) 
1 In Emily's blog, you read that she 
16 
1 enjoyed Japanese traditional music 
2 learnt how to play Japanese drums 
3 made a water slide from bamboo 
was able to try all the yatai foods 
2 Emily was most likely 17 
comedy. 
when she was listening to the rakugo 
1 
confused 
2 convinced 
3 excited 
relaxed 
15 
(2110-15) 
B 
You enjoy outdoor sports and have found an interesting story in a mountain 
climbing magazine. 
Attempting the Three Peaks Challenge 
By John Highland 
Ben Nevis 
(A1344 m) 
Scafell Pike (A977 m) 
Snowdon 
(1085 m) 
Last September, a team of 12 of us, 10 
climbers and two minibus drivers, participated 
in the Three Peaks Challenge, which is well 
known for its difficulty among climbers in 
Britain. The goal is to climb the highest 
mountain in Scotland (Ben Nevis), in England 
(Scafell Pike), and in Wales. (Snowdon) within 24 hours, including 
approximately 10 hours of driving between the mountains. To prepare for this, 
we trained on and off for several months and planned the route carefully. Our 
challenge would start at the foot of Ben Nevis and finish at the foot of 
Snowdon. 
We began our first climb at six o'clock on a beautiful autumn morning. 
Thanks to our training, we reached the summit in under three hours. On the 
way down, however, I realised I had dropped my phone. Fortunately, I found it 
with the help of the team, but we lost 15 minutes. 
We reached our next destination, Scafell Pike, early that evening. After 
six hours of rest in the minibus, we started our second climb full of energy. 
As it got darker, though, we had to slow down. It took four-and-a-half hours to 
complete Scafell Pike. Again, it took longer than planned, and time was 
running out. However, because the traffic was light, we were right on 
schedule when we started our final climb. Now we felt more confident we 
could complete the challenge within the time limit. 
Unfortunately, soon after we started the final climb, it began to rain 
heavily and we had to slow down again. It was slippery and very difficult to see ahead. At 4.30 am, we realised that we could no longer finish in 24 hours. 
16 
(2110-16) 
Nevertheless, we were still determined to climb the final mountain. The rain 
got heavier and heavier, and two members of the team decided to return to the 
minibus. Exhausted and miserable, the rest of us were also ready to go back 
down, but then the sky cleared, and we saw that we were really close to the 
top of the mountain. Suddenly, we were no longer tired. Even though we 
weren't successful with the time challenge, we were successful with the climb 
challenge. We had done it. What a feeling that was! 
1 Put the following events (~) into the order they happened. 
18 → 
19 
← 
20 → 21 
All members reached the top of the highest mountain in Scotland. 
2 Some members gave up climbing Snowdon. 
(3 The group travelled by minibus to Wales. 
4 The team members helped to find the writer's phone. 
2 What was the reason for being behind schedule when they completed 
Scafell Pike? 22 
It took longer than planned to reach the top of Ben Nevis. 
It was difficult to make good progress in the dark. 
(3) 
The climbers took rest in order to save energy. 
4 The team had to wait until the conditions improved. 
3 From this story, you learnt that the writer 
23 
1 didn't feel a sense of satisfaction 
2 reached the top of all three mountains 
3 successfully completed the time challenge 
was the second driver of the minibus 
17 - 
(2110-17) 
第4問 (配点 16) 
You are a new student at Robinson University in the US. You are reading the 
blogs of two students, Len and Cindy, to find out where you can buy things for 
your apartment. 
New to Robinson University? 
Posted by Len at 4:51 p.m. on August 4, 2021 
Getting ready for college? Do you need some home appliances or electronics, but don't want to spend too much money? There's a great store 
close to the university called Second Hand. It sells used goods such as televisions, vacuum cleaners, and microwaves. A lot of students like to buy and sell their things at the store. Here are some items that are on sale now. 
Most of them are priced very reasonably, but stock is limited, so hurry! 
Second Hand Sale for New Students! 
Television $250 
2016 model 
50 in. 
Rice Cooker 
2018 model 
$40 
W 11 in. x D 14 in. x H 8 in. 
Microwave 
2019 model $85 
1.1 cu. ft. 900 watts 
https://secondhand.web 
Vacuum Cleaner 2017 model 
$30 
Kettle 
2018 model $5 
10 
W 9 in. x L 14 in. x H 12 in. 
Purchasing used goods is eco-friendly. Plus, by buying from Second Hand you'll be supporting a local business. The owner is actually a graduate of 
Robinson University! 
18 
(2110-18) 
Welcome to Robinson University! 
Posted by Cindy at 11:21 a.m. on August 5, 2021 
Are you starting at Robinson University soon? You may be preparing to 
buy some household appliances or electronics for your new life. 
You're going to be here for four years, so buy your goods new! In my first 
year, I bought all of my appliances at a shop selling used goods near the 
university because they were cheaper than brand-new ones. However, some of 
them stopped working after just one month, and they did not have warranties. 
I had to replace them quickly and could not shop around, so I just bought 
everything from one big chain store. I wish I had been able to compare the 
prices at two or more shops beforehand. 
The website called save4unistu.com is very useful for comparing the prices 
of items from different stores before you go shopping. The following table 
compares current prices for the most popular new items from three big stores. 
Item 
Cut Price 
Great Buy 
Value Saver 
Rice Cooker 
$115 
$120 
$125 
(W 11 in. x D 14 in. x H 8 in.) 
Television 
$300 
$295 
$305 
(50 in.) 
Kettle 
$15 
$18 
$20 
(10) 
Microwave 
$88 
$90 
$95 
(1.1 cu. ft. 900 watts) 
Vacuum Cleaner 
$33 
$35 
$38 
(W9 in. x L 14 in. x H 12 in.) 
https://save4unistu.com 
Note that warranties are available for all items. So, if anything stops 
working, replacing it will be straightforward. Value Saver provides one-year 
warranties on all household goods for free. If the item is over $300, the 
warranty is extended by four years. Great Buy provides one-year warranties 
on all household goods, and students with proof of enrollment at a school get 
10% off the prices listed on the table above. Warranties at Cut Price are not provided for free. You have to pay $10 per item for a five-year warranty. 
Things go fast! Don't wait or you'll miss out! 
19 
(2110-19) 
問 
1 Len recommends buying used goods because 24 
it will help the university 
2 most of the items are good for the environment 
3 they are affordable for students 
4 you can find what you need in a hurry 
2 Cindy suggests buying 25 
from a single big chain store because it saves time 
2 
from the website because it offers the best prices 
(3) 
new items that have warranties for replacement 
4 used items because they are much cheaper than new items 
3 Both Len and Cindy recommend that you 
26 
buy from the store near your university 
2 buy your appliances as soon as you can 
(3) choose a shop offering a student discount 
choose the items with warranties 
20 
(2110-20) 
4 If you want to buy new appliances at the best possible prices, you should 
27 
access the URL in Cindy's post 
2 access the URL in Len's post 
3 contact one big chain store 
4 contact shops close to the campus 
5 You have decided to buy a microwave from 28 
cheapest. You have also decided to buy a television from 
because it is the 
29 
because 
it is the cheapest with a five-year warranty. (Choose one for each box from 
options ~4.) 
1 Cut Price 
(2) Great Buy 
3 Second Hand 
4 Value Saver 
- 21 
(2110-21) 
第5問 (配点 15) 
In your English class, you will give a presentation about a great inventor. 
You found the following article and prepared notes for your presentation. 
Who invented television? It is not an easy question 
to answer. In the early years of the 20th century, there 
was something called a mechanical television system, but 
it was not a success. Inventors were also competing to 
develop an electronic television system, which later 
became the basis of what we have today. In the US, 
there was a battle over the patent for the electronic 
television system, which attracted people's attention 
because it was between a young man and a giant corporation. This patent 
would give the inventor the official right to be the only person to develop, use, 
or sell the system. 
Farnsworth in 1939 
Philo Taylor Farnsworth was born in a log cabin in Utah in 1906. His 
family did not have electricity until he was 12 years old, and he was excited to 
find a generator-a machine that produces electricity when they moved into a 
new home. He was very interested in mechanical and electrical technology, 
reading any information he could find on the subject. He would often repair 
the old generator and even changed his mother's hand-powered washing 
machine into an electricity-powered one. 
One day, while working in his father's potato field, he looked behind him 
and saw all the straight parallel rows of soil that he had made. Suddenly, it 
occurred to him that it might be possible to create an electronic image on a 
screen using parallel lines, just like the rows in the field. In 1922, during the 
spring semester of his first year at high school, he presented this idea to his 
chemistry teacher, Justin Tolman, and asked for advice about his concept of an 
electronic television system. With sketches and diagrams on blackboards, he 
22 
(2110-22) 
showed the teacher how it might be accomplished, and Tolman encouraged him 
to develop his ideas. 
On September 7, 1927, Farnsworth succeeded in sending his first electronic image. In the following years, he further improved the system so that it could successfully broadcast live images. The US government gave him 
a patent for this system in 1930. 
However, Farnsworth was not the only one working on such a system. A giant company, RCA (Radio Corporation of America), also saw a bright future for television and did not want to miss the opportunity. They recruited 
Vladimir Zworykin, who had already worked on an electronic television system and had earned a patent as early as 1923. Yet, in 1931, they offered 
Farnsworth a large sum of money to sell them his patent as his system was 
superior to that of Zworykin's. He refused this offer, which started a patent 
war between Farnsworth and RCA. 
The company took legal action against Farnsworth, claiming that Zworykin's 1923 patent had priority even though he had never made a working 
version of his system. Farnsworth lost the first two rounds of the court case. However, in the final round, the teacher who had copied Farnsworth's blackboard drawings gave evidence that Farnsworth did have the idea of an electronic television system at least a year before Zworykin's patent was 
issued. In 1934, a judge approved Farnsworth's patent claim on the strength of 
handwritten notes made by his old high school teacher, Tolman. 
Farnsworth died in 1971 at the age of 64. He held about 300 US and foreign patents, mostly in radio and television, and in 1999, TIME magazine included Farnsworth in Time 100: The Most Important People of the Century. 
In an interview after his death, Farnsworth's wife Pem recalled Neil Armstrong's moon landing being broadcast. Watching the television with her, Farnsworth had said, "Pem, this has made it all worthwhile." His story will 
always be tied to his teenage dream of sending moving pictures through the air 
and those blackboard drawings at his high school. 
23 
(2110-23) 
Your presentation notes: 
Early Days 
Philo Taylor Farnsworth (1906-1971) 
- 
30 
- born in a log cabin without electricity 
31 
32 
Sequence of Key Events 
33 
34 
Farnsworth successfully sent his first image. 
35 
36 
RCA took Farnsworth to court. 
Outcome 
- Farnsworth won the patent battle against RCA thanks 
to 
37 
Achievements and Recognition 
- Farnsworth had about 300 patents. 
-TIME magazine listed him as one of the century's most 
important figures. 
38 
24 
(2110-24) 
1 Which is the best subtitle for your presentation? 30 
A Young Inventor Against a Giant Company 
2 From High School Teacher to Successful Inventor 
3 Never-Ending Passion for Generating Electricity 
4 The Future of Electronic Television 
2 Choose the best two options for 31 and 
32 
to complete Early 
Days. (The order does not matter.) 
bought a generator to provide his family with electricity 
built a log cabin that had electricity with the help of his father 
3 enjoyed reading books on every subject in school 
4 fixed and improved household equipment for his family 
got the idea for an electronic television system while working in a field 
3 Choose four out of the five events (~) in the order they happened to 
complete Sequence of Key Events. 
33 
34 → 35 → 
36 
1 Farnsworth rejected RCA's offer. 
2 Farnsworth shared his idea with his high school teacher. 
3 RCA won the first stage of the battle. 
4 The US government gave Farnsworth the patent. 
5 Zworykin was granted a patent for his television system. 
- 25 - 
(2110-25) 
4 Choose the best option for 37 
to complete Outcome. 
1 the acceptance of his rival's technological inferiority 
the financial assistance provided by Tolman 
3 the sketches his teacher had kept for many years 
4 the withdrawal of RCA from the battle 
5 Choose the best option for 38 
Recognition. 
to complete Achievements and 
He and his wife were given an award for their work with RCA. 
2 He appeared on TV when Armstrong's first moon landing was 
broadcast. 
(3 
His invention has enabled us to watch historic events live. 
4 Many teenagers have followed their dreams after watching him on TV. 
26 
(2110-26) 
(下書き用紙) 
英語(リーディング) の試験問題は次に続く。 
27 - 
(2110-27) 
第6問 (配点24) 
A Your study group is learning about "how time of day affects people." You 
have found an article you want to share. Complete the summary notes for 
your next meeting. 
When Does the Day Begin for You? 
When asked "Are you a morning person?" some reply "No, I'm a night 
owl." Such people can concentrate and create at night. At the other end of the 
clock, a well-known proverb claims: "The early bird catches the worm," which 
means that waking early is the way to get food, win prizes, and reach goals. 
The lark is a morning singer, so early birds, the opposite of owls, are larks. 
Creatures active during the day are "diurnal" and those emerging at night are 
"nocturnal." 
Yet another proverb states: "Early to bed, early to rise makes a man 
healthy, wealthy, and wise." Larks may jump out of bed and welcome the 
morning with a big breakfast, while owls hit the snooze button, getting ready at 
the last minute, usually without breakfast. They may have fewer meals, but 
they eat late in the day. Not exercising after meals can cause weight gain. 
Perhaps larks are healthier. Owls must work or learn on the lark schedule. 
Most schooling occurs before 4:00 p.m., so young larks may perform certain 
tasks better. Business deals made early in the day may make some larks 
wealthier. 
What makes one person a lark and another an owl? One theory suggests 
preference for day or night has to do with time of birth. In 2010, Cleveland 
State University researchers found evidence that not only does a person's 
internal clock start at the moment of birth, but that those born at night might 
have lifelong challenges performing during daytime hours. Usually, their world 
28 
(2110-28) 
experience begins with darkness. Since traditional study time and office work happen in daylight, we assume that day begins in the morning. People asleep 
are not first in line, and might miss chances. 
Does everyone follow the system of beginning days in the morning? The Jewish people, an approximately 6,000-year-old religious group, believe a day is 
measured from sundown until the following sundown from eve to eve. 
Christians continue this tradition with Christmas Eve. The Chinese use their 
system of 12 animals not only to mark years, but to separate each two-hour period of the day. The hour of the rat, the first period, is from 11:00 p.m. to 
1:00 a.m. Chinese culture also begins the day at night. In other words, ancient 
customs support how owls view time. 
Research indicates owls are smarter and more creative. So, perhaps larks 
are not always wiser! That is to say, larks win "healthy" and sometimes "wealthy," but they may lose "wise." In an early report, Richard D. Roberts and Patrick C. Kyllonen state that owls tend to be more intelligent. A later, comprehensive study by Franzis Preckel, for which Roberts was one of the 
co-authors, came to the same conclusion. It is not all good news for owls, 
though. Not only can schoolwork be a challenge, but they may miss daytime career opportunities and are more likely to enjoy the bad habits of "nightlife," playing at night while larks sleep. Nightlife tends to be expensive. 
University of Barcelona study suggests larks are precise, seek perfection, and 
feel little stress. Owls seek new adventures and exciting leisure activities, yet 
they often have trouble relaxing. 
A 
Can people change? While the results are not all in, studies of young 
adults seem to say no, we are hard-wired. So, as young people grow and 
acquire more freedom, they end up returning to their lark or owl nature. 
However, concerns arise that this categorization may not fit everyone. In 
addition to time of birth possibly being an indication, a report published in 
Nature Communications suggests that DNA may also affect our habits 
concerning time. Other works focus on changes occurring in some people due 
to aging or illness. New research in this area appears all the time. A study of university students in Russia suggests that there are six types, so owls and larks may not be the only birds around! 
29 
(2110-29) 
Your summary notes: 
When Does the Day Begin for You? 
Vocabulary 
Definition of diurnal: 39 
opposite: nocturnal 
о 
The Main Points 
о 
Not all of us fit easily into the common daytime schedule, but we are forced to follow it, especially when we are children. Some studies indicate that the most active time for each of us is part of our nature. 
• Basically, 40 
Perspectives keep changing with new research. 
Interesting Details 
The Jewish and Christian religions, as well as Chinese time division, are referred to in the article in order to 41 
Some studies show that 42 may set a person's internal clock and may be the explanation for differences in intelligence and 
43 
1 Choose the best option for 
1 achieves goals quickly 
likes keeping pet birds 
3 lively in the daytime 
4 skillful in finding food 
39 
30 
― 
(2110-30) 
2 Choose the best option for 
40 
a more flexible time and performance schedule will be developed in the 
future 
2 enjoying social activities in the morning becomes more important as we 
age 
(3 it might be hard for us to change what time of day we perform best 
4 living on the owl schedule will eventually lead to social and financial 
benefits 
3 Choose the best option for 41 
(3) 
explain that certain societies have long believed that a day begins at 
night 
indicate that nocturnal people were more religious in the past 
say that people have long thought they miss chances due to morning 
laziness 
support the idea that owls must go to work or school on the lark 
schedule 
4 Choose the best options for 42 
amount of sleep 
(2 
appearance 
(3 behavior 
4 cultural background 
5 religious beliefs 
6 time of birth 
and 43 
31 
(2110-31) 
B You are in a student group preparing a poster for a scientific presentation contest with the theme "What we should know in order to protect the 
environment." You have been using the following passage to create the poster. 
Recycling Plastic 
What You Need to Know- 
The world is full of various types of plastic. Look around, and you will see dozens of plastic items. Look closer and you will notice a recycling symbol on them. In Japan, you might have seen the first symbol in Figure 1 below, but the United States and Europe have a more detailed classification. These recycling symbols look like a triangle of chasing pointers, or sometimes a simple triangle with a number from one to seven inside. This system was started in 1988 by the Society of the Plastics Industry in the US, but since 2008 it has been administered by an international standards organization, ASTM (American Society for Testing and Materials) International. Recycling symbols provide important data about the chemical composition of plastic used and its recyclability. However, a plastic recycling symbol on an object does not always mean that the item can be recycled. It only shows what type of plastic 
it is made from and that it might be recyclable. 
Figure 1. Plastic recycling symbols 
PETE (PET) 
HDPE 
PVC 
LDPE 
PP 
PS 
OTHER 
So, what do these numbers mean? One group (numbers 2, 4, and 5) is considered to be safe for the human body, while the other group (numbers 1, 
3, 6, and 7) could be problematic in certain circumstances. Let us look at the 
safer group first. 
High-density Polyethylene is a recycle-type 2 plastic and is commonly called HDPE. It is non-toxic and can be used in the human body for heart 
32 
(2110-32) 
valves and artificial joints. It is strong and can be used at temperatures as low as -40°C and as high as 100°C. HDPE can be reused without any harm and is also suitable for beer-bottle cases, milk jugs, chairs, and toys. Type 2 products can be recycled several times. Type 4 products are made from Low-density Polyethylene (LDPE). They are safe to use and are flexible. LDPE is used for squeezable bottles, and bread wrapping. Currently, very little Type 4 plastic is recycled. Polypropylene (PP), a Type 5 material, is the second-most widely produced plastic in the world. It is light, non-stretching, and has a high resistance to impact, heat, and freezing. It is suitable for furniture, food containers, and polymer banknotes such as the Australian dollar. Only 3% of 
Type 5 is recycled. 
― 
Now let us look at the second group, Types 1, 3, 6, and 7. These are more challenging because of the chemicals they contain or the difficulty in recycling them. Recycle-type 1 plastic is commonly known as PETE (Polyethylene Terephthalate), and is used mainly in food and beverage containers. PETE containers or PET as it is often written in Japan should only be used once as they are difficult to clean thoroughly. Also, they should not be heated above 70°C as this can cause some containers to soften and change shape. Uncontaminated PETE is easy to recycle and can be made into new containers, clothes, or carpets, but if PETE is contaminated with Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC), it can make it unrecyclable. PVC, Type 3, is thought to be one of the least recyclable plastics known. It should only be disposed of by professionals and never set fire to at home or in the garden. Type 3 plastic is found in shower curtains, pipes, and flooring. Type 6, Polystyrene (PS) or Styrofoam as it is often called, is hard to recycle and catches fire easily. However, it is cheap to produce and lightweight. It is used for disposable drinking cups, instant noodle containers, and other food packaging. Type 7 plastics (acrylics, nylons, and polycarbonates) are difficult to recycle. Type 7 plastics are often used in the manufacture of vehicle parts such as seats, dashboards, and bumpers. 
Currently, only about 20% of plastic is recycled, and approximately 55% ends up in a landfill. Therefore, knowledge about different types of plastic could help reduce waste and contribute to an increased awareness of the 
environment. 
33 
(2110-33) 
Your presentation poster draft: 
Do you know the plastic recycling symbols? 
What are plastic recycling symbols? 
44 
Types of plastic and recycling information 
Type Symbol 
1 
PETE (PET) 
2 
HDPE 
co 
'M 
Description 
This type of plastic is common and generally easy to recycle. 
This type of plastic is easily recycled 
45 
This type of plastic is 
46 
Products 
drink bottles, food 
containers, etc. 
heart valves, artificial joints, 
chairs, toys, etc. 
shower curtains, pipes, flooring, etc. 
3 
PVC 
A 
Plastics with common properties 
47 
48 
34 
(2110-34) 
1 Under the first poster heading, your group wants to introduce the plastic 
recycling symbols as explained in the passage. Which of the following is the 
most appropriate? 
44 
They are symbols that rank the recyclability of plastics and other 
related problems. 
They provide information on the chemical make-up and recycling options 
of the plastic. 
3 They tell the user which standards organization gave them certificates 
for general use. 
4 They were introduced by ASTM and developed by the Society of the 
Plastics Industry. 
2 You have been asked to write descriptions of Type 2 and Type 3 plastics. 
Choose the best options for 45 and 46 
Type 2 
45 
1 and commonly known as a single-use plastic 
and used at a wide range of temperatures 
(3) but harmful to humans 
4 but unsuitable for drink containers 
Type 3 
46 
1 difficult to recycle and should not be burned in the yard 
2 flammable; however, it is soft and cheap to produce 
3 
known to be a non-toxic product 
4 
well known for being easily recyclable 
35 - 
(2110-35) 
3 You are making statements about some plastics which share common 
According to the article, which two of the following are 
properties. 
appropriate? (The order does not matter.) 
47 
. 
48 
Boiling water (100°C) can be served in Type 1 and Type 6 plastic 
containers. 
It is easy to recycle products with Type 1, 2, and 3 logos. 
(3) Products with the symbols 1, 2, 4, 5, and 6 are suitable for food or drink 
containers. 
Products with Type 5 and Type 6 markings are light in weight. 
5 
Type 4 and 5 plastics are heat resistant and are widely recycled. 
6 
Type 6 and 7 plastics are easy to recycle and environmentally friendly. 
36 
(2110-36) 
