英

語（リーディング）

各大問の英文や図表を読み，解答番号 １ 〜 ４４ にあてはまるものとして

最も適当な選択肢を選びなさい。

第１問 （配点 (cid:2)）

Your host family in the US is planning to buy a small aquarium. You found this

helpful pamphlet.

Beginners!

Decorate Your Freshwater Aquarium

Start your wonderful hobby of keeping fish by following these three easy steps!

１．Consider what kind of fish you want

Some fish need open spaces for swimming,

while others want places to hide. Also, some

fish need sand to cover themselves in.

For

other non-hiding fish, small stones can be used.

２．Select decorations

Natural and artificial decorations are necessary

to keep fish in good health and should cover

５０-７０％ of the area. Fish from fast-moving or

deep water need solid objects such as small

rocks and logs. Those from slow-moving or

sand

small stones

natural

artificial

shallow water prefer soft objects like plants. Avoid any plastic or rubber items

not intended for aquariums. Clean all decorations carefully to make sure there

is nothing harmful on them.

― ４ ―

（２６０７―４）

３．Position decorations

Fish need room to move. Leave space around

the edges of the tank. Place tall decorations

and plants at the back, and put short ones at

the front.

問 １ The customers most likely to benefit from this pamphlet are

１ .

(cid:2) aquarium lovers who are looking for discount prices

(cid:3) experienced fish lovers who need specialized advice

(cid:4) fish fans who want different methods of feeding their fish

(cid:5) newcomers who need to be informed about their aquarium

問 ２ When arranging decorations to keep your fish in good health, it is a good

idea to

２ .

(cid:2) avoid using solid and soft objects

(cid:3) provide the right amount of open space

(cid:4) reuse your old toothbrush as a decoration

(cid:5) wash decorations briefly and roughly

― ５ ―

（２６０７―５）

問 ３ According to the pamphlet, which picture best shows how to decorate for

fish from slow-moving water?

３

(cid:463)

(cid:464)

Front

Front

(cid:465)

(cid:466)

Front

Front

― ６ ―

（２６０７―６）

第２問 （配点 １２）

Your teacher asks you to write a report about the future of transportation. To

prepare, you read a blog written by a British author about the topic.

Flying Vehicles

10 December 2024

Jonah Markowski

Bristol, UK

Yesterday, I attended a forum in northern Japan called Flying Vehicles: Today

and Tomorrow. Modern transportation problems and solutions were discussed

by three guest speakers.

All the speakers agreed on three points. First, flying vehicles should be

electrically powered in general. Air pollution can be reduced by increasing the

use of zero-emission technologies.

Second, emergency services would be

improved. Flying ambulances would be faster in large cities with heavy traffic.

Also, they would be better for servicing small towns far from hospitals.

Finally, from a safety point of view, they said that flying technology would

need to be well tested and controlled to avoid accidents in the air.

At the end of the forum, the speakers discussed flying taxis. According to one

of

the speakers, recent reports show that some countries are already

developing this technology. A few of them are even testing flying taxi services

in the middle of their major cities. Then, someone in the audience asked if

― ８ ―

（２６０７―８）

flying taxis would soon be available around the world. Two of the speakers

answered, “Yes,” but they disagreed about the timing. One of them said, “In ５

years,” and the other said, “In １５ years.” The third speaker answered, “No,

because the operating costs of flying taxis are too high.”

I look forward to

seeing which guest speaker’s prediction turns out to be correct.

Next week’s blog is about self-driving cars. It’s going to be a fantastic post!

問 １ Which of the following did all the guest speakers agree on?

４

(cid:2) Flying vehicles are widely accepted as being safe.

(cid:3) Flying vehicles will improve responses to emergencies.

(cid:4) Modern transportation problems are difficult to solve.

(cid:5) Zero-emission technologies cannot be applied to flying vehicles.

問 ２ Flying vehicles will most likely

５ .

(cid:2) be used in small towns rather than large cities

(cid:3) increase the number of traffic jams near hospitals

(cid:4) prevent solutions to environmental problems

(cid:5) require proper assessment and regulation

― ９ ―

（２６０７―９）

問 ３ One guest speaker’s opinion is that

６ .

(cid:2) flying taxi centres will be based in rural areas

(cid:3) flying taxi technology has already been tested

(cid:4) flying taxis are already widespread

(cid:5) flying taxis are too expensive to run

問 ４ Which of the following is mentioned in the blog?

７

(cid:2) Costs of flying ambulance services

(cid:3) Flying transport using solar-power

(cid:4) Parking areas for flying taxis

(cid:5) Urban trials of flying taxi services

― １０ ―

（２６０７―１０）

第３問 （配点 (cid:2)）

You are an exchange student at a UK high school, and your teacher asked you to

find an interesting story. You found this story to share in class next week.

THE CONTEST

“One more time, with feeling!” I encouraged my band.

We are capable musicians.
In fact, our keyboardist, Yuki, is a classically-
trained pianist who regularly performs in front of audiences. Kei, our bassist,
has a huge number of followers because of the popular videos she uploads.
However, the Ultimate Music Contest was only a few weeks away and I was
kind of regretting that we had entered it.
I was worried that my band Cat’s
Curry wouldn’t be ready. Something felt wrong, but I couldn’t figure it out.
We continued to practise until our rehearsal time was up. As band leader, I
felt additional pressure about
“Tomo, you’re too worried.
the contest.
Everything will be OK,” Ren, our drummer, said as she smiled at me and
waved goodbye. “I hope so,” I thought to myself.

Back at home, I watched the video I had taken of our rehearsal. As I listened
to Sayonara, and Thanks for Everything, I thought my ears were playing tricks
on me. I carefully listened a few more times. Although it was hard to notice,
I wondered. As I
we were slightly out of rhythm.
continued to listen, I paid extra attention to each instrument. “I’ve got it!”
I
thought excitedly.

“How could that be?”

At the next practice, I played back the recording and waited for everyone’s
reaction.
“I’ve been practising every day!”
“These songs aren’t even difficult...”
“What’s the matter?”

They didn’t understand the problem, so I explained my discovery, “Each of us
is showing off. We’re playing for ourselves, not for the band!” From that day
on, our focus shifted and the band took a step forward on its musical journey.
Like the saying goes, “The whole is greater than the sum of the parts.”
Although Cat’s Curry did not win the contest, we all felt it was the best
performance of our lives.

― １２ ―

（２６０７―１２）

問 １ Which person is telling the story?

８

(cid:2) Kei

(cid:3) Ren

(cid:4) Tomo

(cid:5) Yuki

問 ２ Choose four out of the five options（(cid:2)〜(cid:6)）and put them in the order

they happened.

９ → １０ → １１ → １２

(cid:2) The band changed its attitude.

(cid:3) The band decided to practise more often.

(cid:4) The band leader identified the problem.

(cid:5) The band leader was concerned about the band.

(cid:6) The band registered for a contest.

問 ３ How did the band most likely feel after the competition?

１３

(cid:2) Awful

(cid:3) Embarrassed

(cid:4) Independent

(cid:5) Satisfied

― １３ ―

（２６０７―１３）

第４問 （配点 １２）

In English class, you are writing an essay on a topic related to lifestyle in modern

society. This is your most recent draft. You are now working on improvements

based on comments from your teacher.

Try a Slow Life

Comments

In modern society, people are always busy and this fast

pace of living can be stressful. The movement toward a

slow life has shown us that you don’t have to be busy all the

time. Instead, you can slow down and notice things that are

truly meaningful to you. By taking your time and being

completely focused on these things, you can improve the

quality of your work and life. This essay will describe some

ways to do this.

One key point of

the slow life is to own fewer

belongings. This makes it easier to concentrate on everyday

activities. (1)

Many people today tend to buy more than

they can consume. Do you really need five pairs of the

latest sneakers?

Slow-lifers would recommend reducing

(1) Add an

appropriate

connecting
word.

possessions and buying only necessary items.

Another

recommendation is

to think about your

communication style and manner

in your public and

private life. Sadly, one study has found that around ９０％ of

people check smartphones during face-to-face conversations,

which may

appear

impolite

and affect

relationships

negatively. (2)

(2) Add a

concluding

sentence to

improve this

paragraph.

― １４ ―

（２６０７―１４）

The final aspect of slow living is to take １０ to １５

(3) The

minutes to reflect on your day. Try to recollect people and

events that were significant. By mentally highlighting them,

you can find fulfillment in daily tasks.

In summary, through a slow life, (3)you can relax. Even

small changes can improve your life. Avoid having non-

essential items, spend quality time with people around you,

and (4)remember what you talked about with your friends.

By doing these things, you will have a chance to live a

better and more rewarding life.

underlined

part isn‛t

your main

argument.

Rewrite it.

(4) The

underlined

part doesn‛t
describe your

essay content

well.

Change it.

Overall Comments:

You have really improved your essay.  Keep working on it.  I‛m going to follow 

your suggestions to slow down and hopefully improve the quality of my life.

問 １ Based on Comment , which is the best word to add?

１４

(cid:2) However

(cid:3) Moreover

(cid:4) Otherwise

(cid:5) Therefore

問 ２ Based on Comment , which is the best sentence to add?

１５

(cid:2) Limit the time you spend having conversations with people.

(cid:3) Send messages with your phone just once or twice a day.

(cid:4) Try to focus your attention on the person you are talking with.

(cid:5) Use your phone to find real friends through social media.

― １５ ―

（２６０７―１５）

問 ３ Based on Comment , which is the best phrase to replace the underlined

part?

１６

(cid:2) you can be satisfied at work and in your personal life

(cid:3) you can complete tasks in a short period of time

(cid:4) you can decrease stress by sharing work with others

(cid:5) you can focus on the outcome rather than the process

問 ４ Based on Comment , which is the best phrase to replace the underlined

part?

１７

(cid:2) plan your daily activities as soon as you wake up

(cid:3) recall the bad things that happened in your life

(cid:4) think back to the memorable parts of your day

(cid:5) throw away unwanted items before sleeping

― １６ ―

（２６０７―１６）

第５問 （配点 １６）

You are an exchange student in the US. As part of your university’s community

volunteer program, you will help organize a special conference for local businesses.

You wrote this email to the professor in charge and received a reply.

＿ ↔ ×
October １５, ２０２４

Event Plan

Dear Professor Ryan,

I am very happy to be the representative for the volunteer program. You

mentioned that this event is to promote the local economy. I hope to work as a

civil servant

in the local development division after graduation, so this

experience is very valuable for me. The conference schedule you requested is

below.

Saturday, February 15, 2025

Time

Speaker & Title

9:45 a.m.

Opening address: Professor Henry Ryan

Morning theme: “Changing local traditions”

10:00 a.m.

Presentation 1: Martin Faulkner

Title: Starting an online business

11:00 a.m.

Break

11:15 a.m.

Presentation 2: Jane Brown

Title: (undecided)

12:15 p.m.

Lunch

Afternoon theme: “Preserving local traditions”

1:00 p.m.

Presentation 3: Sarine Schmidt

Title: Handing down craftsmanship to younger generations

2:00 p.m.

Break

― １８ ―

（２６０７―１８）

2:15 p.m.

Presentation 4: Dianne Moran

Title: (undecided)

3:15 p.m.

Break

3:30 p.m.

Debate moderator: Tim McGregor

Title: Change vs. conservation

4:30 p.m.

Closing address: Mayor Lesley Baker

Title: (undecided)

4:45 p.m.

End

I would like you to confirm the following points:

・The conference will start at ９:４５ a.m. and end at ４:４５ p.m.
・The registration will close seven days before the event.
・The conference will be held in the Main Hall.
・Participants will park in the university parking area.

Below is a list of things that still need to be decided:

・Can we use the cafeteria for the lunch time reception?
・Have you received the speech titles for the mayor and the two remaining

presenters?

・How will we arrange the tables and chairs for the debate?

The number of volunteers that can help with the conference isn’t set yet.

I’ll

send you the list as soon as possible.

This is my first time being on a committee like this, and I am rather anxious,

so I would appreciate any advice you have.

I’m looking forward to assisting and attending the presentations.

With regards,

Student group representative

（University Volunteer Program）

― １９ ―

（２６０７―１９）

＿ ↔ ×
October １７, ２０２４

Re: Event Plan

Dear representative and group members,

Thank you for making the draft. You’ve done a really good job.

The time schedule and order of events look good to me. The Main Hall worked

really well as a venue last time. It has a good capacity for this type of event.

As a university staff member, I can reserve it for free.

Closing the

registration seven days before the conference is too short.

It doesn’t give us

time to prepare materials and send out information. You also mentioned

parking. The university parking lot will be open for the event, so participants

can use it without having a permit.

With regard to the information you requested, I have received the remaining

two presentation titles. One presenter is a local businessperson, who will talk

about changes she has made in her company. The other presenter is a local

chef. She will introduce recipes using locally grown mushrooms. I will update

their presentation details on the schedule and send it back to you. Also, the

mayor has provided a title for his closing speech, “Our town, our future.” As

for lunch, the cafeteria staff don’t work on weekends, so we need to rethink it.

Do you have any suggestions?

I have attached a diagram for the debate seating arrangements. You will

notice that there needs to be a small desk for the moderator in the center.

There should be one table on each side of the moderator, and these tables

should face slightly inward. As we have two debaters on each team, use the

long tables. There isn’t a lot of time to set up the stage for the debate, so you

will need a few people to help carry the tables and chairs.

Thank you for your assistance.

Henry Ryan

Attachment: Debate set up diagram

― ２０ ―

（２６０７―２０）

問 １ Based on your email, what is your overall worry about being on the

volunteer program?

１８

(cid:2) A lack of event organizing experience

(cid:3) Concerns about your presentation skills

(cid:4) The possibility of future employment

(cid:5) Your ability in writing English emails

問 ２ Which of

these titles best match Professor Ryan’s descriptions for

Presentation ２（ １９ ） and Presentation ４（ ２０ ） based on the

morning and afternoon themes?

(cid:2) Building a memorial statue of our town hero

(cid:3) Dealing with local volunteers

(cid:4) Organizing cross-cultural events

(cid:5) Rediscovering the benefits of local food

(cid:6) Renovating the village church

(cid:7) Updating a traditional business model

問 ３ Referring to Professor Ryan’s reply, which of the following needs to be

reconsidered?

２１

(cid:2) Conference registration

(cid:3) Main Hall as the venue

(cid:4) Mayor’s speech title

(cid:5) Opening and closing times

― ２１ ―

（２６０７―２１）

問 ４ Which diagram best represents Professor Ryan’s seating plan for the

debate?

２２

(cid:464)

(cid:466)

(cid:463)

(cid:465)

(cid:467)

― ２２ ―

（２６０７―２２）

問 ５ You will email Professor Ryan again.

In your reply, which two pieces of

information are you most likely to include?

２３

Ａ：The cost of renting the conference venue

Ｂ：The local restaurants that can serve food

Ｃ：The names of the volunteers available

Ｄ：The number of parking permits needed

(cid:2) Ａ and Ｂ

(cid:3) Ａ and Ｃ

(cid:4) Ａ and Ｄ

(cid:5) Ｂ and Ｃ

(cid:6) Ｂ and Ｄ

(cid:7) Ｃ and Ｄ

― ２３ ―

（２６０７―２３）

第６問 （配点 １２）

Your friend, Harry, wants to be a professional writer. He has written a story about

two new heroes for a writing contest. You read it and then give him feedback.

Bluebird & Melody: Real Heroes

By Harry Okazaki

Everyone knows me as Bluebird, the world-famous superhero. Before, I

was only a superhero in name, but now, I deserve my title. Let me tell you my

story.

I served as one of six members of the incredibly popular superhero group,

Team Hero. Our slogan was “Heroes for Humanity!” Rather than serving

humanity, though, we starred in silly television shows. Being so caught up in

my own fame, I was unaware that I was a fake superhero.

◆◆◆◆◆

One day, we were filming The Lives of Heroes, a reality show about our

everyday good deeds. The reality, however, was that we were actors; we

pretended that we were helping the world.

In one episode, I was supposed to

rescue a cat that had wandered into a street drain.

I was flying through the

air, when I heard a girl crying. In an instant, I flew down to her. In tears, she

told me that her cat, Whiskers, had gotten into the drain. The truth was, a

member of the television crew was waiting in the underground drain with the

cat.

“Have no fear!

I’ll save Whiskers!”

I said, as I threw open the cover of

the drain and went underground. To my surprise, the crew member told me

that she had lost Whiskers and asked me to find the cat.

I walked around

calling for Whiskers but he did not come.

Suddenly, the newest Team Hero member, Melody, appeared out of

nowhere. Melody was mysterious; she wore a mask around her eyes and her

real identity was unknown. She could teleport to any place on earth in less

than a second, so her unexpected appearances were always a surprise. She

said, “Whiskers thinks that you can’t be trusted.

I’ll try to convince him to

come out.” Melody, who could recreate any sound, produced a cat’s meow and

Whiskers appeared.

― ２４ ―

（２６０７―２４）

After picking up the cat, I returned to the street and was cheered by

onlookers. When I was posing for a photo with Whiskers and the girl, I was

thinking about how foolish I looked. Suddenly, a voice popped into my head,

“You do look foolish trying to be a celebrity.” I realized it was Melody, who had

already vanished.

◆◆◆◆◆

I grew up in Allegany State Park in New York State. My parents were

both park rangers; they patrolled the park and helped hikers in trouble. When

I was １２, I discovered my superpowers. I was climbing a tree when a branch

broke. Instead of falling, I floated. When I told my parents, my mother only

said, “So, you are the flyer in the family.” She then said something shocking,

“You have an older sister with superpowers.”

I learned my parents had been

told to send her to a special facility for extraordinary children, because her

powers could help humanity.

“Someday, when the time is right, you’ll meet

her.

I know now that we should never have let her go. We won’t let that

happen to you,” said my mother.

I decided to put my powers to use by rescuing hikers. I could fly and see

for miles; I could locate or aid a troubled hiker faster than any park ranger. I

became known as the Amazing Park Ranger Boy.

Because of my

achievements, Team Hero eventually recruited me. Upon joining, I was given

the name Bluebird and told that I would be doing bigger and better things.

◆◆◆◆◆

After the Whiskers incident, I flew back home. My phone buzzed with a

notification.

It said, “Melody has decided to leave Team Hero.”

In my home

office, I heard someone moving around. When I opened the door, I briefly saw

a person’s shape before it disappeared. On my desk was a note:

Bluebird,

Let‛s start a family business.  Join me

as a co-founder of REAL HEROES.

After reading the note, I understood who Melody was.

Since then,

working together, Melody and I have made our parents proud.

― ２５ ―

（２６０７―２５）

Your email feedback to Harry

Hey Harry,

I loved your story! I really liked how Bluebird passes through various stages in

his personal growth（see below）.

２４ → ２５ → ２６ → ２７

I found Melody really fascinating with her unique superpowers.

She can ２８ .

Also, I was moved when Bluebird’s mother said, “We won’t let that happen to

you.” She meant, “We are going to ２９ .”

On the other hand, I think you can still make the story a little better by adding

a few details. You could write about ３０ and ３１ , which are not

mentioned or suggested. These details would give your characters depth and

make your story more interesting.

Good luck!

問 １ Choose four out of the five descriptions（(cid:2)〜(cid:3)）and put them in the

order they occurred.

２４ → ２５ → ２６ → ２７

(cid:2) He is a hero again.

(cid:4) He is a performer.

(cid:5) He is a professional writer.

(cid:6) He is a super park ranger.

(cid:3) He is an ordinary boy.

― ２６ ―

（２６０７―２６）

問 ２ Choose the correct combination of Melody’s superpowers.

２８

Ａ：fly at very high altitudes

Ｂ：imitate sounds perfectly

Ｃ：read the minds of animals and people

Ｄ：see extremely long distances

Ｅ：speak to people using telepathy

Ｆ：transport herself to different places instantly

(cid:2) Ａ，Ｂ，Ｄ, and Ｆ

(cid:3) Ａ，Ｃ，Ｄ, and Ｅ

(cid:4) Ｂ，Ｃ，Ｄ, and Ｅ

(cid:5) Ｂ，Ｃ，Ｅ, and Ｆ

問 ３ Choose the best option for ２９ .

(cid:2) control your powers

(cid:3) hire you as a superhero

(cid:4) keep you together with us

(cid:5) make sure you don’t commit crimes

問 ４ Choose the best options for ３０ and ３１ . （The order does not

matter.）

(cid:2) Bluebird’s childhood experiences

(cid:3) Bluebird’s view on the reality show

(cid:4) how Melody learned she had superpowers

(cid:5) the reason why Melody joined Team Hero

(cid:6) the relationship between Bluebird and Melody

― ２７ ―

（２６０７―２７）

第７問 （配点 １６）

You are preparing a presentation for a science project on animal habits. You found

some interesting information in the article below and are now making your outline.

Animal Sleep Patterns

If you ever spend all day at home, you might notice that your pet cat

sleeps a lot during the day and is quite active in the evening and early

morning. Humans, on the other hand, are awake during most of the daylight

and evening hours and then sleep for a long time at night.

Sleep is essential for animals’ physical and mental health, and for their

bodies to function efficiently. For animals with brains and central nervous

systems, sleep is generally defined as an altered state of consciousness

characterized by specific body positions, closed eyes, a general decrease in

physical activity, and slower response rates. Sleep also gives the brain neurons

a chance to reset, and the body becomes energized. Most creatures experience

states of sleep, but the types and patterns differ from species to species.

Different sleep patterns over a ２４-hour cycle have been identified in

various types of animals. Three common patterns are called monophasic,

biphasic, and polyphasic. Monophasic sleep, experienced by humans and many

larger animals, happens when one is awake and active for many hours, and

then one sleeps for an extended period. Some birds, insects, and mammals

utilize a kind of biphasic sleep, where the animal has two waking and sleeping

times, with one sleep being long and the other like a nap. Dogs and cats are

polyphasic, meaning they have four to six sleeping and waking periods

throughout the day.

There are variations in sleep patterns depending on the animal’s size,

physical needs, and diet. Smaller animals such as squirrels or mice tend to use

up their energy by moving quickly and frequently. This results in the need to

sleep more often but for shorter periods of time.

Lions are carnivorous

― ２８ ―

（２６０７―２８）

animals and have longer sleeping times because their food sources satisfy their

hunger for longer periods. Large herbivores like wild horses, on the other

hand, sleep less than meat-eating animals because their plant-based diet has

relatively few calories, resulting in the need to spend most of their time

searching for food.

Safety is another variable in sleep patterns. Animals that can create safe

spaces tend to enjoy longer periods of sleep, but those that might need to stay

alert sleep less. Apes sleep on platforms, high above the jungle floor, which

keep them away from attackers. Some smaller animals such as rabbits create

shelters by digging into the ground where it is difficult for predators to find

them. As a result, they feel safer and sleep longer.

In contrast, elephants

often travel long distances and may feel exposed to danger from hunters or

other animals, contributing to their short sleeping times.

The animal sleep patterns discussed so far tend to be typical. A pattern

that may be less easily noticed in our daily lives is called unihemispheric sleep.

In this type of sleep, some animals traveling in a group keep one eye open.

While one side of the animal’s brain sleeps, the other side stays awake and

alert to its surroundings.

In this way, the animal can experience the reviving

effects of sleep while also watching out for threats. This unihemispheric sleep

occurs in some bird species when they are flying long distances in groups.

Birds flying at the outer edge of the group use this type of sleep to help

protect the other members that sleep with both eyes closed.

Besides the types of sleep explained above, there are patterns that can be

considered to be sleep-like activities. Hibernation, which can be observed in

black bears, is a long, inactive period when food is scarce or the weather is

severe. During this time, the animal’s body temperature drops, its heart rate

and breathing slow down, and it may appear dead. Creatures such as jellyfish

that have no central nervous system also experience times of extreme

relaxation where they remain in a less responsive state.

As shown above, sleep plays an important role in the lives of animals and

it is much more complex than simply closing the eyes.

― ２９ ―

（２６０７―２９）

Your presentation outline

How Animals Sleep

Importance of Sleep

32

　A. To alter body temperature 

　B. To maintain overall health 

　C. To refresh the animal’s body

　D. To reset the brain neurons

Biphasic Sleep Pattern (in each 24-hour cycle)

33

Some Conditions Affecting Sleep Patterns

　-　Animals           .

34

　-　Animals           .　

35

Unihemispheric Sleep

　-　Some birds           .

36

37

　-　Black bear hibernation

　-　Jellyfish relaxation

― ３０ ―

（２６０７―３０）

問 １ Under the heading, “Importance of Sleep,” you spotted an error in your

presentation outline. Which of the following should you remove?

３２

(cid:2) Ａ

(cid:3) Ｂ

(cid:4) Ｃ

(cid:5) Ｄ

問 ２ You want to use a figure for the biphasic sleep pattern mentioned in the

article. Choose the best option for ３３ .

(cid:463)

(cid:465)

(cid:464)

awake

asleep

awake

asleep

(cid:466)

awake

asleep

awake

asleep

― ３１ ―

（２６０７―３１）

問 ３ Choose the best options for ３４ and ３５ . （The order does not

matter.）

(cid:2) which burn up energy rapidly tend to sleep more often

(cid:3) which continually search for food need longer sleep

(cid:4) whose diet has fewer calories can sleep more easily

(cid:5) whose food keeps their stomachs full usually sleep longer

(cid:6) whose homes are difficult to get to typically sleep less

問 ４ Choose the best option for ３６ .

(cid:2) can be partially asleep and partially awake while in flight

(cid:3) can have half of their brain sleep, leading to increased heart rate

(cid:4) can keep both eyes open constantly to watch out for enemies

(cid:5) can protect the outside members from inside the group

問 ５ Choose the best heading for ３７ .

(cid:2) Common Patterns of Sleep

(cid:3) Natural Sleep Methods

(cid:4) Reasons for Sleep

(cid:5) States Similar to Sleep

― ３２ ―

（２６０７―３２）

第８問 （配点 １７）

You are working on an essay about space exploration. You will follow the steps

below:

Step １: Read a range of opinions gathered from the Internet about exploring outer

space.

Step ２: Take a position on space exploration.
Step ３: Create an outline of your essay using additional sources.

▶［Step １］Read a range of opinions

Apu（university professor）

The exploration of space requires a lot of research time and money. All this

research has led to many new inventions and boosted humanity’s scientific and

technical knowledge. While laser eye surgery, solar cells, freeze-dried food,

and wireless headsets are just a few examples that have come out of space

research, perhaps the invention that has proven the most useful in modern life

is the computer mouse. This was developed in the １９６０s on a NASA research
project.

Christine（company CEO）

Much space exploration relies on international cooperation, a good example

being the International Space Station, launched in １９９８. The main reasons for
this cooperation are to share the huge costs involved and to improve national

prestige. More recently, private companies have begun exploring space,

though mostly for commercial reasons.

In the future,

it is possible that

countries or corporations will try to colonize parts of the moon or Mars. While

financial cooperation and raising prestige are welcome, improper commercial or

military use of outer space is not.

Meilin（journalist）

As the famous physicist, Stephen Hawking, once said, it is probably dangerous

to broadcast into deep space evidence of the existence of humans here on

Earth. If our nearest intelligent aliens are anything like us, then they will seek

to conquer Earth and humanity. For me, this is the greatest threat associated

with space exploration. The deeper into space we travel, the greater the

likelihood Earth will be discovered by an aggressive alien civilization.

― ３４ ―

（２６０７―３４）

Naomi（lawyer）

Historically, jobs working at sea were likely the least safe, with the highest

rates of death in the workplace. In modern times, space is no different, if not

worse. Once we are just １０，０００ meters or so above the surface of the Earth,
there is little oxygen and the temperature is too low for human survival. Since

the first person went into space in １９６１，１９ of ６５２ astronauts have died on the
job: a fatality rate of ２．９％. No other business or industry would tolerate such
a high level of danger. Why should the space industry?

Victor（financial analyst）

Space exploration has contributed hugely to economic growth.

In the USA,

NASA provided work for nearly ３４０，０００ people in ２０２１, mostly at above-average
salaries, and it is estimated that it has contributed $７．７ billion in taxes to the
Space is also being explored by other countries, such as
US government.

China, India, Japan, and Russia. In the future, further economic growth will be

ensured by more private firms entering the space race and by the rise of space

tourism, space mining, space colonization, and space militarization.

問 １ Which of the following best expresses Meilin’s opinion?

３８

(cid:2) Caution is critical.
(cid:3) Invention is invaluable.
(cid:4) Science is superior.
(cid:5) Trust is treasure.

問 ２ Both Christine and Victor mention that space exploration ３９ .

(cid:2) has

economic

impacts

and

provides

opportunities

for

private

corporations to make money

(cid:3) is gaining popularity and that salaries for people working in the industry

are above average

(cid:4) is politically challenging as it requires coordination among countries with

different policies

(cid:5) needs global cooperation, especially to operate the International Space

Station successfully

― ３５ ―

（２６０７―３５）

▶［Step ２］Take a position

問 ３ Now that you have understood the various opinions, you have taken a

position on space exploration and written some notes below. Choose the best

options to complete ４０ ― ４２ . （You must have all of ４０ ―

４２ correct to get points.）

POSITION: Space exploration is not a good idea.

●

４０ and ４１ opinions support this the most.

● An argument common to these two people is that ４２ .

Options for ４０ and ４１ （the order does not matter）:

(cid:2) Apu’s

(cid:3) Christine’s

(cid:4) Meilin’s

(cid:5) Naomi’s

(cid:6) Victor’s

Options for ４２ :

(cid:2) military conflict in outer space is something we should try hard to avoid

(cid:3) space exploration exposes people to a lot of danger and is too risky

(cid:4) the possibility of alien invasion is too great to be ignored and must be

addressed

(cid:5) the risk of death for people in the industry is extremely high compared

with other jobs

― ３６ ―

（２６０７―３６）

▶［Step ３］Create an outline of your essay

Essay outline

A Reconsideration of Space Exploration

Introduction

Space exploration is without doubt on the frontline of science, but it should not

be a priority for the following three reasons.

Body

REASON １ from Step ２, based on evidence from the opinions in Step １

REASON ２（ ４３ ）, based on evidence from Source A

REASON ３, based on evidence（ ４４ ）from Source B

Conclusion

Upon consideration of all its aspects, we should perhaps prioritize other things

over exploring space.

Source A

Although you may not make a direct connection between space exploration and

environmental problems, a connection does exist. First, the CO２ emissions of

spacecraft are not insignificant.

It is estimated that one spacecraft launch

emits ２００-３００ tons of CO２ and other harmful gases into the Earth’s

atmosphere. More and more spacecraft are being sent into space, which is

damaging for the Earth. The contribution to the greenhouse effect of these

craft’s CO２ emissions is causing the Earth’s temperature to rise.

Second,

space exploration is damaging the thermosphere（the space environment close

to the Earth）. The quantity of space debris, the junked parts of spacecraft or

artificial satellites, is on the rise. NASA estimates that, in the thermosphere,

there are currently around ２３，０００ pieces of space debris which are larger than

a softball and travel at speeds of up to ２８，０００ km/h. This poses a risk to

future spaceflight, and may even be a potential obstacle to astronomical

observation.

― ３７ ―

（２６０７―３７）

Source B

Space exploration is getting more and more costly; in ２０２２ it was reported that

the total amount of money spent by all the governments around the world was

more than US$１００ billion. The graph below compares this cost with the annual

budgets, estimated by international

institutions, that would be required to

address some of the world’s most important issues.

Government investment
worldwide in space exploration

103

Potential annual budgets in developing countries needed for...

providing clean water

supplying basic education

relieving hunger

54

40

150

0

20

40

60

80

100 120 140 160
US$ billion

― ３８ ―

（２６０７―３８）

問 ４ Based on Source A, which of the following is the most appropriate for

REASON ２?

４３

(cid:2) CO２ emissions produced by spacecraft are huge and are damaging outer

space.

(cid:3) It is difficult to update spacecraft with new engines that emit fewer

harmful gases.

(cid:4) Space debris poses risks to humans due to potential collision with

airplanes.

(cid:5) Space exploration is polluting the environment of both the Earth and the

thermosphere.

問 ５ For REASON ３, you have decided to write The cost of space exploration is

high and the money could be used instead to solve major world problems.

Based on Source B, which option best supports this statement?

４４

(cid:2) The amount of money that governments around the world spend on

space exploration could not only reduce hunger but also make primary

education available in developing countries.

(cid:3) The data show that it costs less to ensure clean water for people in

developing countries than for governments around the world to explore

space.

(cid:4) With less than half the money that governments spend on space

exploration, it would be possible to address the problem of educational

inequality in the developing world.

(cid:5) With the money currently invested in space exploration, we could

provide sufficient food, basic education, and enough clean water in

developing countries.

― ３９ ―

（２６０７―３９）

